Migration Guide (MWPack 19)

•	Removed components
•	Renamed components
•	On-demand components
•	BMS Config files
•	rdb::Pack
•	Toolchain V19
•	Batch job helpers
•	OSPack main changes
•	mdw::CFC
•	mdw::Toolbox
•	mdw::ACF
•	mdw::PollingEngine
•	mdw::TDSC
•	mdw::DateTime
•	mdw::Fields
•	mdw::EDICPP
•	mdw::PanelToolkit
•	mdw::QueuingServer
•	OTF
•	mdw::CacheFramework
•	mdw::MonitoringHeaders
•	mdw::GmcMonitoringApi
•	mdw::MonitoringAgent
•	mdw::SQL::*****
o	mdw::SQL::ora19 replaces mdw::SQL::ora18
o	The use of connection pools is mandatory
o	Use std::string constructor for UP_SQLPrepQueryDefinition
•	mdw::EZT
•	mdw::RFD::*
•	mdw::History::*
•	mdw::security
o	mdw::EOS
•	mdw::CryptoManager
•	mdw::EZT::Daemon
•	mdw::CppUnit
•	Using xlog_dcx in non-regression script

Removed components
•	mdw::FileIndex: very few users and it is no longer maintained.
•	mdw::OracleClient::InstantClient: osp-like components. Replaced by rdb::Pack
•	mdw::GmcMonitoringApi, mdw::MonitoringHeaders & mdw::MonitoringAgent (check the dedicated section for more details)
Renamed components
•	All SQL components have been moved from mdw:: Pack to the new RDB Pack  (rdb::Pack)
o	mdw::OracleClient is now named rdb::OracleClient
On-demand components
Some components are only used by a few, well identified, consumers. They won't be part of the initial MDW pack deliveries.
The following components will be delivered by component owner and added to MDW Pack on demand:
•	mdw::IbmMq8
•	mdw::KVClient => Migration to "KVClient Pack 19"
•	mdw::COM::SecureFileGatewayAccessor
BMS Config files
As usual  new bms reference configuration files are delivered. General info can be found in BMS Migration Information.
rdb::Pack
rdb::Pack is a new ULAM Pack containing  OracleClient commercial libraries and MariaDB client libraries. (If you use Oracle or mariadb (Example tag name="ora" but any flavor or oracle and mariadb are concerned) in your configuration file then you will need to use rdb::Pack)
The Pack is under the responsibility of SQL Team.
rdb::Pack is versioned by mdw::Pack but you need to declare it in your application.xml and/or component.xml  in order to use it (like for OSP, MDW, SBM, etc...). Example.
You also need to use imperatively a CMK version >= 4-82-1-8 .
You have to use the tag "ora" in your CMK configurations/deployment.xml everywhere where you used to use "ora10", "ora11", "ora18" or "ora19" before. In the MWPack, the tag "ora19" will eventually be deleted, you have to use only "ora" with recent pack 19. Similarly, mdw::SQL::ora19 will eventually be deleted, so stop using it, use only mdw::SQL::ora.
Toolchain V19
We have adopted a new toolchain naming convention:
•	The minimal Linux kernel version has been dropped from the name. This is due to the fact that this is an implementation detail of the toolchain, which might evolve (ie most likely increase) with minor toolchain releases. We will align minimal kernel version to what is available in Amadeus as a whole (ie local dev in all worldwide sites, ADP legacy datacenter, ACS new datacenter, remote/foreign datacenter like R-Boxes...) at time T. Given that we mainly run on RHEL/SLES, if newer versions of these OS are used in Amadeus, we will upgrade the minimal Linux kernel version accordingly too.
•	We have aligned toolchain major version with pack major version, thus it will be toolchain v19.
•	The toolchain name is: "x86_64-v19".
VERY IMPORTANT: as of January 2019, pack 19 will only work reasonably well on Linux kernels >= 4.12. This means that the only fully supported OS are SLES 12 SP4 or SLES >= 15, RHEL >= 8, Ubuntu >= 16.04.4 or Ubuntu >= 18.x. Since ACS is still using RHEL 7 for now, we will temporarily allow old (but heavily patched) kernels 3.10 from RHEL 7 to be used, but this will be dropped as soon as RHEL 7 is not used anymore in ACS (this should happen at some point in 2019).
More information later on how to migrate to SLES 12 or SLES 15 in local dev and in ADP can be found in SLES 12 migration guide
The C++ version used is C++17 (-std=gnu++17).
From toolchain v4 (GCC 8.x/-std=gnu++17) to toolchain v19 (GCC 9.x/-std=gnu++17)
Batch job helpers
For batch jobs please use the helpers (otf_batch_launcher.sh and batch_env.sh) delivered in MWPack. They are bundled in all packs of supported major releases delivered since 21 Jul 2020.
Please delete both scripts from your repository and update your batch wrappers:
# for otf_batch_launcher.sh
- CMD="${OBEAPP_ROOT}/cmp/shell/otf_batch_launcher.sh cmp CMP_MyBatch -t ${OBEAPP_ROOT}/com/etc/CMP_MyBatch.traceconf"
+ CMD="${OBEAPP_ROOT}/cmp/pack/MDW/bin/otf_batch_launcher.sh cmp CMP_MyBatch -t ${OBEAPP_ROOT}/com/etc/CMP_MyBatch.traceconf"

# for batch_env.sh
- . ${OBEAPP_ROOT}/cmp/shell/batch_env.sh cmp
+ . ${OBEAPP_ROOT}/cmp/pack/MDW/bin/batch_env.sh cmp
Note that the executable "bin/fetch_vars" was removed from recent pack >= 19. It was not changed since 2015, and obviously couldn't be used anymore reliably by application anyway since it was lacking all the new phases introduced since then. Also, it was removed since in future version of ACS, where there will be no MAG and a completely different configuration format, it hardly make sense to continue having a shell script starting an SI admin client to connect to the MAG to fetch the MAG configuration variables. From the OTF point of view, willing to launch a C++ process which is not an OTF backend, but still configured by the OTF way, is somehow forgetting that this C++ process should have been an OTF backend in the first place (the OTF framework and the MWPack has been created so that the basic application needs are coded there to avoid other process to-recode it), so you are more than encouraged to use a proper OTF backend if you were using "fetch_vars". If somehow you feel otherwise, please contact the OTF team, with convincing arguments justifying that you want OTF variables without OTF backends.
OSPack main changes
OSP 19 - main changes
mdw::CFC
•	The header "cfc/Deprecated.h" which used to be included by "AmdDef.h", "AmdInc.h" and "cfc/Def.h" has been removed. It defined the AMD_DEPRECATED("Deprecation text") macro which was removed as well. If you used it, then simply replace it by its C++17 standard equivalent [[deprecated("Deprecation text")]].
•	All file that you used to include with
#include _AMD_*_H_
should now be included with their standard C++ header counter part (ie the _AMD_*_H_ macros were removed). You can do it on all your code base by using this sed script:
(export IFS=$'\n'; find -P $(if git rev-parse --show-toplevel 1>/dev/null 2>/dev/null; then git ls-files; else hg manifest; fi) -maxdepth 0 -type f -print0)|xargs -0 sed -i -e 's/\<_AMD_ALGORITHM_H_\>/<algorithm>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_BITSET_H_\>/<bitset>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_COMPLEX_H_\>/<complex>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_DEQUE_H_\>/<deque>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_EXCEPTION_H_\>/<exception>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_FSTREAM_H_\>/<fstream>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_FUNCTIONAL_H_\>/<functional>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_IOMANIP_H_\>/<iomanip>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_IOS_H_\>/<ios>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_IOSFWD_H_\>/<iosfwd>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_IOSTREAM_H_\>/<iostream>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_ISTREAM_H_\>/<istream>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_ITERATOR_H_\>/<iterator>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_LIMITS_H_\>/<limits>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_LIST_H_\>/<list>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_LOCALE_H_\>/<locale>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_MAP_H_\>/<map>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_MEMORY_H_\>/<memory>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_NEW_H_\>/<new>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_NUMERIC_H_\>/<numeric>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_OSTREAM_H_\>/<ostream>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_QUEUE_H_\>/<queue>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_SET_H_\>/<set>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_STACK_H_\>/<stack>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_STDEXCEPT_H_\>/<stdexcept>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_STREAMBUF_H_\>/<streambuf>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_SSTREAM_H_\>/<sstream>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_STRING_H_\>/<string>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_STRSTREAM_H_\>/<strstream>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_UTILITY_H_\>/<utility>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_VALARRAY_H_\>/<valarray>/g' -e 's/\<_AMD_VECTOR_H_\>/<vector>/g'
•	The header "AmdDef.h" is deprecated and will emit a warning when included. You should instead include directly "cfc/Def.h" (this is exactly the same thing, without the warning).
•	The headers "AmdDef.h", "AmdInc.h" and "cfc/Def.h" are deprecated. They will be removed from pack 21. These files contains many AMD_* and kAMD* macros, functions or typedefs. All definitions from there (macros, functions, typedefs) were either poisoned, not defined, or deprecated by default. If you really want the previous behavior from previous packs (ie during the migration) you may consider defining the macro AMD_DEFINE_DEPRECATED_GLOBAL_DEFINITIONS to any value prior to including them (still deprecated object will emit a deprecation notice on usage). Note that in the migration guide from OTF pack 15 you can already find some big sed expressions removing most of these deprecated definitions already. The remaining ones are to be removed manually, and I expect to be only a very few usages (except AMD_UInt32 and AMD_SInt32, that if you really want to, can be removed trivially with a sed expression). For the removal of the platform macros, keep only the code that:
o	Consider we have a correctly working C++ compiler, ie:
	_AMD_HAS_TYPENAME is defined and true,  and both _AMD_TYPENAME_ and AMD_typename are actually aliases for "typename"
	_AMD_HAS_EXCEPTIONS_ is defined and true
	_AMD_HAS_STD_EXCEPTIONS_ is defined and true
	_AMD_HAS_STD_WSTRING_ is defined and true
	_AMD_HAS_STD_NAMESPACE_ is defined and true, and AMD_STD_NAMESPACE, AMD_SNS and AMD_STD are actually aliases for "std", and AMD_USING_NAMESPACE_STD is actually the basic "using namespace std".
o	We use ASCII (ie _AMD_CHARSET_ASCII_ is defined and true, while _AMD_CHARSET_EBCDIC_ is not).
o	Don't assume anything wrt architecture endianess. While it is true we know for sure that for now we use x64, and that is is little endian (ie _AMD_LITTLE_ENDIAN_ is defined and true, while _AMD_BIG_ENDIAN_ is not), it's not impossible that in a medium term future we might migrate to ARM (which so far we never supported in Amadeus), which potentially can be big endian. Normally when you care about indianess, it means you write things on the wire, or things that will be serialized and stored on a remote machine. In these cases, please use the ntohs, ntohl, toolbox::OS::ntohll, htons, htonl, toolbox:OS::htonll functions, and don't assume any endianess. All the methods AMD_SwapInt* shall be replaced by the aformentioned functions.
o	Consider we use Linux only: ie
	_AMD_UNIX_, _AMD_UNIX_LINUX_, _AMD_GNU_ are defined and true.
	All other unix variantes (Solaris, HPUX, AIX) are not
	Any code expecting WIN32 things is to be removed, and any code expecting Windows or Cygwin as well.
	Any code expecting TPF is to be removed (ie _AMD_TPF_ and all _AMD_TPF_* variants are not defined)
o	We use a 64 bits platform, ie: _AMD_ENV_64_ is defined and true, while _AMD_ENV_32_ is not.
The migration will be done in two steps. First step, you can still include the "AmdInc.h" and "cfc/Def.h" headers, and actually you should continue to include them in your public headers if you used to include them before. This way, your users can continue to benefit from them, and they can decide to use AMD_DEFINE_DEPRECATED_GLOBAL_DEFINITIONS to have their definitions if they need it (ie migration is too hard). We will stay like this for two major packs (pack 19 and 20). Still internally in your components, you can remove all usage of the deprecated definitions (and in most cases, you can backport it to pack 18 as well). In your private .cpp files, you can also drop the include entirely, since it affects just you. Then in pack 21, we will remove these files (or at least most of it), and then you will have just to remove the includes from your own public includes, without further change. That leaves people 2 major packs to migrate to the non-deprecated definitions, with an easy fallback mechanism if they can't (the macro AMD_DEFINE_DEPRECATED_GLOBAL_DEFINITIONS).
•	Note: for now macros AMD_DLL* and kAMD_Bit* are not scheduled for deletion, since indeed there value is not always trivial enough to inline their values in all libraries.
mdw::Toolbox
•	All old and deprecated headers "AMD_*.h" have been removed. You should now include their "toolbox/*.h" counterpart.
o	It also means that many classes AMD_* are now named toolbox::*
o	It also means that many kAMD_* constants are now named toolbox::k*
o	It also means that many AMD_* macros are now named TBX_*
o	More details in the changes implementing this:
	https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/MWP/repos/toolbox/commits/db6625e7ef6f2abe3574d6eb0b544e3d11194075
	https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/MWP/repos/toolbox/commits/9c9905cf6273cf261fdc46a676a479fbc778740d
•	The include files 'TOOLInc.h", "toolbox/TOOLInc.h" and "FSMInc.h" were removed. It means that you should now always include files by their real names rather than by macros.
o	ie instead of #include _TBX_MARSHALLER_H_ you have to now write #include "toolbox/Marshaller.h"
o	More details in the commit implementing it: https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/MWP/repos/toolbox/commits/db6625e7ef6f2abe3574d6eb0b544e3d11194075
•	The include file "FSM_Engine.h" is now named "toolbox/FSM_Engine.h", same for "FSM_Grammar.h"
•	The FastMarshaller (and FastUnmarshaller) and their corresponding header was removed. It happens that these fast marshaller actually were mere aliases of the regular toolbox::Marshaller. TBX_FASTMARSHAL_ENUM and TBX_FASTUNMARSHAL_ENUM shall be replaced by TBX_MARSHAL_ENUM and TBX_UNMARSHAL_ENUM.
•	The marshalling of toolbox::TimeValue has changed back in pack 18. Now seconds and micro seconds are encoded on 64 bits while historically it was 32 bits. This change has been prepared a long time ago, and all toolbox releases in branch 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16 made after march 2018 and all releases in pack 18 are able to decode both 32 and 64 bits values without issues. So whenever you exchange a TimeValue between backends (please note that OTF does in the MOBGMN between backend and frontend), then you have to use a recent pack 12, 13, 14, 15 or 16 if the other backend is using pack >= 18. Note that if you have stored this in a database, you may need to re-encode it as well. In pack 21 we will drop the code that is able to decode 32 bits values, leaving you pack 18, 19 and 20 to fully migrate all your components.
•	As announced in earlier major packs, all toolbox mutexes have been removed and replacement are available in C++11, C++14 and C++17. Please note that only middleware are normally meant to open threads. Here is the corresponding table:
o	toolbox::ThreadMutex → std::mutex (C++11)
o	toolbox::RecursiveThreadMutex → std::recursive_mutex (C++11)
o	toolbox::RWThreadMutex → std::shared_mutex (C++17)
o	toolbox::RecursiveRWThreadMutex → no replacement (it's insane, and inevitably leads to deadlock, toolbox implementation was buggy anyway).
o	toolbox::CondThreadMutex → std::condition_variable (C++11)
o	toolbox::Guard → std::lock_guard (or std::unique_lock in some cases) (C++11)
o	toolbox::ReadGuard → std::shared_lock (C++14)
o	toolbox::WriteGuard →  std::lock_guard (or std::unique_lock in some cases) (C++11)
You can use the sed script below. Beware of the following limitations: toolbox::Guard and toolbox::WriteGuard are replaced with std::lock_guard. In case you want to use std::unique_lock then you will have to manual update.
(export IFS=$'\n'; find -P $(if git rev-parse --show-toplevel 1>/dev/null 2>/dev/null; then git ls-files; else hg manifest; fi) -maxdepth 0 -type f -print0)|xargs -0 sed -i -e 's/\<toolbox::ThreadMutex\>/std::mutex/g' -e 's/\<toolbox::RecursiveThreadMutex\>/std::recursive_mutex/g' -e 's/\<toolbox::RWThreadMutex\>/std::shared_mutex/g' -e 's/\<toolbox::CondThreadMutex\>/std::condition_variable/g' -e 's/\<toolbox::Guard\>/std::lock_guard/g' -e 's/\<toolbox::ReadGuard\>/std::shared_lock/g' -e 's/\<toolbox::WriteGuard\>/std::lock_guard/g'
•	The macro AMD_RETHROW(aException) has been removed. Just replace it with a simple "throw;" statement, this is really what it does and is valid C++.
•	mdw/bad_alloc.h has been removed. There should be little case were you need to throw a bad_alloc. If that the case please use std::bad_alloc() instead.
•	The class toolbox::OString has been deprecated. Replace this by std::string when you want to own the string, and by std::string_view when you don't own the string. Pay special attention if you serialize the toolbox::OString class as the serialization format is NOT serialized a std::string, but as a raw pointer to const char.
•	The macros _MDW_STACK_AUTO_ and _MDW_ADD_STACKFRAME_ have been been explicitly poisoned. It expands to nothing in previous packs.
•	The macro __AMD_FUNCNAME__ has been  explicitly poisoned. It expands to __PRETTY_FUNCTION__ in previous packs.
•	The type toolbox::Hashtable and toolbox::Hash have been explicitly deprecated. Replace the hashtable by std::unordered_map and the hash function with std::hash. However be very careful with char*/const char*, the right replacement for toolbox::Hash<char*>/toolbox::Hash<const char*> is std::hash<std::string_view>, using std::hash<const char*> will yield a *DIFFERENT* behavior (entries won't be equal even if the key is equal but in a different place in memory).
•	The copy constructor of toolbox::Unmarshaller is deprecated since pack 15. Technically, another version taking a bool "iMustCopy" as a second parameter exists, but ideally you really should not copy the unmarshaller object. Read the deprecation message which gives you some clue on how you should adapt your code to overcome this change.
mdw::ACF
•	Reminder: no one is meant to use mdw::ACF except few middleware component. The API of ACF may evolve in at each minor or major release in unpredictable ways. The only valid users of ACF are to date: SI/OTF/Tracer, and will be the only component we will take care of when ACF will change in an incompatible way.
•	You have to remove all references to mdw::ACF in all your repositories. Please read mdw::ACF decomissioning.
mdw::PollingEngine
•	One of tha major differnces between release 18 and 19 in the Polling Engine is that time duration was changed in release 19 from int to std::chrono::steady_clock::duration. In pack 18 you could use int and std::chrono::steady_clock::duration with as getters and setters for both types exist. In pack 19 it is only std::chrono::steady_clock::duration
Here is diff from the PollingEngine code of PollingEngine/PublicInclude/include/peg/com/PEG_Def.h file.
-typedef uint32_t Timeout_t;
+typedef std::chrono::steady_clock::duration Timeout_t;
What needs to be changed in the code is the type from int to std::chrono::steady_clock::duration. Example:
Public header: Common/include/peg/com/ClientProfileInfo.h

ClientProfileInfo.setITO(1) should become either ClientProfileInfo.setITO(std::chrono::seconds(1)) or passing std::chrono::duration as parameter.
Similar change should be applied for the getters
mdw::TDSC
•	The headers "TdscIn.h" and "tdsc/TdscIn.h" were removed. Stop including them. To fix all the following includes trying to use the macros "_TDSC_*" just run this sed script:
(export IFS=$'\n'; find -P $(if git rev-parse --show-toplevel 1>/dev/null 2>/dev/null; then git ls-files; else hg manifest; fi) -maxdepth 0 -type f -print0)|xargs -0 sed -i -e 's/\<_TDSC_EXPORT_H_\>/"tdsc\/TDSCExport.h"/g' -e 's/\<_TDSC_3270SUPPORT_H_\>/"tdsc\/Support3270.h"/g' -e 's/\<_TDSC_CHARSETS_H_\>/"tdsc\/CharSets.h"/g' -e 's/\<_TDSC_3270READER_H_\>/"tdsc\/Reader3270.h"/g' -e 's/\<_TDSC_3270WRITER_H_\>/"tdsc\/Writer3270.h"/g' -e 's/\<_TDSC_EXCEPTION_H_\>/"tdsc\/TDSCException.h"/g' -e 's/\<_TDSC_P1024BREADER_H_\>/"tdsc\/Reader1024B.h"/g' -e 's/\<_TDSC_P1024BWRITER_H_\>/"tdsc\/Writer1024B.h"/g' -e 's/\<_TDSC_CONTEXT_H_\>/"tdsc\/Context.h"/g' -e 's/\<_TDSC_OPTIONPARSER_H_\>/"tdsc\/OptionParser3270.h"/g'
mdw::DateTime
•	The header "DatInc.h" has been removed. Stop including it. To fix all the following includes trying to use the macros "_UP_DATE_*" or "_UP_TIME_*" just run this sed script:
(export IFS=$'\n'; find -P $(if git rev-parse --show-toplevel 1>/dev/null 2>/dev/null; then git ls-files; else hg manifest; fi) -maxdepth 0 -type f -print0)|xargs -0 sed -i -e 's/\<_UP_DATE_TIME_DEF_H_\>/"UP_DateTimeDef.h"/g' -e 's/\<_UP_DATE_H_\>/"UP_Date.h"/g' -e 's/\<_UP_TIME_H_\>/"UP_Time.h"/g'
mdw::Fields
•	The header "MFLInc.h" has been removed. Stop including it. To fix all the following includes trying to use the macros "_FIELD*" just run this sed script:
(export IFS=$'\n'; find -P $(if git rev-parse --show-toplevel 1>/dev/null 2>/dev/null; then git ls-files; else hg manifest; fi) -maxdepth 0 -type f -print0)|xargs -0 sed -i -e 's,\<_LAZY_H_\>,"mdw/fld/Lazy.h",g' -e 's,\<_SAFE_H_\>,"mdw/fld/Safe.h",g' -e 's,\<_FIELD_H_\>,"mdw/fld/Field.h",g' -e 's,\<_FIELDTEMPLATEVAL_H_\>,"mdw/fld/FieldTemplateVal.h",g' -e 's,\<_FIELDTEMPLATEREF_H_\>,"mdw/fld/FieldTemplateRef.h",g' -e 's,\<_FIELDDATE_H_\>,"mdw/fld/FieldDate.h",g' -e 's,\<_FIELDDATETIME_H_\>,"mdw/fld/FieldDateTime.h",g' -e 's,\<_FIELDCHAR_H_\>,"mdw/fld/FieldChar.h",g' -e 's,\<_FIELDBOOLEAN_H_\>,"mdw/fld/FieldBoolean.h",g' -e 's,\<_FIELDINT_H_\>,"mdw/fld/FieldInt.h",g' -e 's,\<_FIELDLONGINT_H_\>,"mdw/fld/FieldLongInt.h",g' -e 's,\<_FIELDDOUBLE_H_\>,"mdw/fld/FieldDouble.h",g' -e 's,\<_FIELDDECIMAL_H_\>,"mdw/fld/FieldDecimal.h",g' -e 's,\<_FIELDSTRING_H_\>,"mdw/fld/FieldString.h",g' -e 's,\<_FIELDUTF8STRING_H_\>,"mdw/fld/FieldUTF8String.h",g' -e 's,\<_FIELDRANGESTRING_H_\>,"mdw/fld/FieldRangeString.h",g' -e 's,\<_FIELDRANGEUTF8STRING_H_\>,"mdw/fld/FieldRangeUTF8String.h",g' -e 's,\<_FIELDEXCEPTION_H_\>,"mdw/fld/FieldException.h",g' -e 's,\<_FIELDS_H_\>,"mdw/fld/Fields.h",g' -e 's,\<_FIELDEXPORT_H_\>,"mdw/fld/Export.h",g'
mdw::EDICPP
•	Stop using all _EDI* include macros.. To fix all the following includes trying to use the macros "_EDI*" just run this sed script:
(export IFS=$'\n'; find -P $(if git rev-parse --show-toplevel 1>/dev/null 2>/dev/null; then git ls-files; else hg manifest; fi) -maxdepth 0 -type f -print0)|xargs -0 sed -i -e 's/\<_EDI_BLB_H_\>/"EDI_BLB.h"/g' -e 's/\<_EDI_COMPOSITE_H_\>/"EDI_Composite.h"/g' -e 's/\<_EDI_CONTAINER_H_\>/"EDI_Container.h"/g' -e 's/\<_EDI_CONTEXT_H_\>/"EDI_Context.h"/g' -e 's/\<_EDI_CONVERTER_H_\>/"EDI_Converter.h"/g' -e 's/\<_EDI_DATAELEMENT_H_\>/"EDI_DataElement.h"/g' -e 's/\<_EDI_DECODER_H_\>/"EDI_Decoder.h"/g' -e 's/\<_EDI_DECODINGMACROS_H_\>/"EDI_DecodingMacros.h"/g' -e 's/\<_EDI_DEF_H_\>/"EDI_Def.h"/g' -e 's/\<_EDI_ENCODER_H_\>/"EDI_Encoder.h"/g' -e 's/\<_EDI_ENCODINGMACROS_H_\>/"EDI_EncodingMacros.h"/g' -e 's/\<_EDI_ENTITY_H_\>/"EDI_Entity.h"/g' -e 's/\<_EDI_EXCEPTION_H_\>/"EDI_Exception.h"/g' -e 's/\<_EDI_FIELDINTERFACE_H_\>/"EDI_FieldInterface.h"/g' -e 's/\<_EDI_FIELDS_H_\>/"EDI_Fields.h"/g' -e 's/\<_EDI_GRAMMAR_H_\>/"EDI_Grammar.h"/g' -e 's/\<_EDI_MESSAGE_H_\>/"EDI_Message.h"/g' -e 's/\<_EDI_PARSER_H_\>/"EDI_Parser.h"/g' -e 's/\<_EDI_SEGMENT_H_\>/"EDI_Segment.h"/g' -e 's/\<_EDI_TOOLS_H_\>/"EDI_Tools.h"/g' -e 's/\<_EDI_VECTOR_H_\>/<vector>/g' -e 's/\<_EDI_STRING_H_\>/<string>/g' -e 's/\<_EDI_FASTALLOCATOR_H_\>/"Fastallocator.h"/g' -e 's/\<_EDI_NEWOPERATOR_H_\>/"newoperator.h"/g' -e 's/\<_EDI_GROUP_H_\>/"EDI_Group.h"/g' -e 's/\<_EDI_SMARTBUFFER_H_\>/"EDI_SmartBuffer.h"/g' -e 's/\<_EDI_EDIFACTSEGMENT_H_\>/"EDI_Segment.h"/g' -e 's/\<_EDI_EDIFACTMESSAGE_H_\>/"EDI_Message.h"/g' -e 's/\<_EDI_EDIFACTGROUP_H_\>/"EDI_Container.h"/g' -e 's/\<_EDI_EDIFACTCOMPOSITE_H_\>/"EDI_Container.h"/g'

mdw::PanelToolkit
•	Stop using all _PEL* include macros. To fix all the following includes trying to use the macros "_PEL*" just run this sed script:
(export IFS=$'\n'; find -P $(if git rev-parse --show-toplevel 1>/dev/null 2>/dev/null; then git ls-files; else hg manifest; fi) -maxdepth 0 -type f -print0)|xargs -0 sed -i -e 's,\<_PEL_CONTAINER_H_\>,"panel3270/Container.h",g' -e 's,\<_PEL_SCREEN_H_\>,"panel3270/Screen.h",g' -e 's,\<_PEL_FUNCTION3270_H_\>,"panel3270/Function3270.h",g' -e 's,\<_PEL_ERRORS_H_\>,"panel3270/Errors.h",g' -e 's,\<_PEL_GRAMMAR_H_\>,"panel3270/Grammar.h",g' -e 's,\<_PEL_HTMLPANEL_H_\>,"panel3270/HTMLPanel.h",g' -e 's,\<_PEL_EXPORT_H_\>,"panel3270/PELExport.h",g' -e 's,\<_PEL_READER_H_\>,"panel3270/Reader.h",g' -e 's,\<_PEL_WRITER_H_\>,"panel3270/Writer.h",g'
(export IFS=$'\n'; find -P $(if git rev-parse --show-toplevel 1>/dev/null 2>/dev/null; then git ls-files; else hg manifest; fi) -maxdepth 0 -type f -print0)|xargs -0 sed -i -e 's,^\([[:space:]]*#[[:space:]]*include[[:space:]]*[<|"]\)PEL_Container\.h\([>|"]\),\1panel3270/Container.h\2,g' -e 's,^\([[:space:]]*#[[:space:]]*include[[:space:]]*[<|"]\)PEL_Errors\.h\([>|"]\),\1panel3270/Errors.h\2,g' -e 's,^\([[:space:]]*#[[:space:]]*include[[:space:]]*[<|"]\)PEL_Function3270\.h\([>|"]\),\1panel3270/Function3270.h\2,g' -e 's,^\([[:space:]]*#[[:space:]]*include[[:space:]]*[<|"]\)PEL_Grammar\.h\([>|"]\),\1panel3270/Grammar.h\2,g' -e 's,^\([[:space:]]*#[[:space:]]*include[[:space:]]*[<|"]\)PEL_Screen\.h\([>|"]\),\1panel3270/Screen.h\2,g'
mdw::QueuingServer
Please check OTF 19 Migration guide
OTF
OTF 19 Migration guide

mdw::CacheFramework
•	Please consider CacheFramework deprecated and start looking for a new solution. The synchronisation part is replaced by GMC. The cache part should be redesigned while avoiding HeapFileMap.
mdw::MonitoringHeaders
MonitoringHeaders is a headers only component defining Tracer's keys: they were needed to send traps to ABM (Amadeus Business Monitoring).
Amadeus Business Monitoring will be discontinued by end of 2019 and will be replaced by ARGOS and SPLUNK (depending the UseCases).
As a consequence MonitoringHeaders will be removed from MDW Pack.
If you are still using ABM then please get in touch with TPE-DMM-MON-MAP Team.
If you are not using ABM but still rely on the constants defined there for your internal code (not the intended UseCase): You will have to copy the constants you need inside your code.
mdw::GmcMonitoringApi
Most of this component is built on top of mdw::MonitoringHeaders and send traps to ABM, both were decommissioned.
The rest of this component is only intended to be used internally by the Middleware Data Distribution Platform.
This component is consequently decommissioned.
If you are still using ABM please see the section of mdw::MonitoringHeaders. If you are using other features of this component please contact Cloud Native Middleware.
mdw::MonitoringAgent
The purpose of this component is to send traps to ABM. ABM being decommissioned, mdw::MonitoringAgent is decommissioned too.
mdw::SQL::*****
mdw::SQL::ora19 replaces mdw::SQL::ora18
The oracle client 19 now replaces the oracle client 18. Therefore, the ora18 flavor in SQL is replaced by ora19.
The use of connection pools is mandatory
It is not possible anymore to create objects of type UP_SQLDBConnection, neither to call  Connect and Disconnect methods  on DB connection objects.
All clients must use the connection pool  to get or release a DB connection.
The goal of this change is to improve automatic database reconnection after failovers and swithcovers and to support application continuity which will make database outages transparent to applications
If you are using OHF this change is most probably not impacting you, however if you explicitly create UP_SQLDBConnection objects, please do the following changes in your code to use the connection pool :
Option 1 (preferred)
1/ At your application start up, initialize the pool by calling  :  UP_SQLDBConnectionPool::Init();
2/ Whenever you need a DB connection create it using UP_SQLActivePooledConnection activeCnx(const UP_SQLDBConnectionType&);
 (UP_SQLDBConnectionType  constructor  takes the same parameters that are used in UP_SQLDBConnection::Connect method)
You will be given a DB connection from the pool, the connection is ready for usage (already connected to DB), and it is automatically released to the pool at object destruction time.
3/  At your application shut down, close the connection pool using UP_SQLDBConnectionPool::Close();

Use std::string constructor for UP_SQLPrepQueryDefinition
As UP_SQLPrepQueryDefinition char* constructor was removed you need to use the std::string constructor

mdw::EZT
•	Since EZT API is based on UP_SQL your application must call upsql::sqlite::UP_SQLDBConnectionPool::Init() when starting and call upsql::sqlite::UP_SQLDBConnectionPool::Close() when stopping
•	The notion of 'transaction' was dropped
•	EZT_ApiConnectionHandler::GetConnection() was replaced by EZT_ApiConnectionHandler::GetConnectionType() following the migration to connection pool
•	See mdw::SQL::* section for more information
mdw::RFD::*
•	Since RFD API is based on UP_SQL your application must call upsql::sqlite::UP_SQLDBConnectionPool::Init() when starting and call upsql::sqlite::UP_SQLDBConnectionPool::Close() when stopping
•	The notion of 'transaction' was dropped
•	RFD_ApiConnectionHandler::GetConnection() was replaced by RFD_ApiConnectionHandler::GetConnectionType() following the migration to connection pool
•	See mdw::SQL::* section for more information
mdw::History::*
Since HistoryFramework is based on UP_SQL your application must call UP_SQLDBConnectionPool::Init() when starting and call UP_SQLDBConnectionPool::Close() when stopping if you use its interfaces outside an OHF context. See mdw::SQL::* section for more information.
mdw::security
mdw::EOS
•	mdw::EOS is based on RFD API. Since RFD API is based on UP_SQL, your application must call upsql::sqlite::UP_SQLDBConnectionPool::Init() when starting and call upsql::sqlite::UP_SQLDBConnectionPool::Close() when stopping
•	See mdw::RFD::*, mdw::SQL::* sections for more information
mdw::CryptoManager
Early warning: in the next Pack 21, permissions for the configuration file will be enforced. Check: Migration Guide (MWPack 21). This is only an early warning and does NOT affect this Pack 19, yet please take it into consideration early enough for the future.
mdw::EZT::Daemon
Variables EZT_SYNCHRO_DAEMON_SERVER_SAP and EZT_SYNCHRO_DAEMON_FSE are no longer valid. Use of a client profile is mandatory for Delta-Edifact mode.
You will have to:
•	Define needed client profile(s) as applicable
•	Define variable EZT_SYNCHRO_DAEMON_SERVER_CLIENTPROFILEKEY and set it to the key of the client profile
•	Remove variables EZT_SYNCHRO_DAEMON_SERVER_SAP and EZT_SYNCHRO_DAEMON_SERVER_FSE
Please refer to GMC Daemon for examples and instructions. Client profile is supported by the daemon since at least MWPack 13.
mdw::CppUnit
mdw::CppUnit was an old version of the opensource component CppUnit copy/paste into a BMS component.
It is deprecated since branch 18: Removed from Pack 23. Please use osp::CppUnit instead which is more recent version.
Code changes:
•	Using CPPUNIT_NS::Message in CPPUNIT_ASSERT_MESSAGE will cause a compilation error, and it will be fixed by directly inlining the string in the CPPUNIT_ASSERT_MESSAGE macro or by using a std::string instead of CPPUNIT_NS::Message. See the different diff here:
o	https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/MWP/repos/sic/commits/ac099be419915c3cd891d76bd23ec12da4c5afa4#component/test/src/Test_CC.cpp
o	https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/DATREP/repos/gmc/pull-requests/663/diff#Components/CacheRelease/test/cppUnit/src/cfs/test/cppUnit/TcuCacheReleasesV12.cpp
•	Tests checking thrown exception, in the very special case where std::exception is expected, people will have to specify another exception type as osp::CppUnit already catches std::exception:
o	https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/DSM/repos/queuingserver/commits/d9714727b7ab8522e6bfa42c6b221f3e564fed21#qs/test/qsTest/src/qstest/unittest/tests/StatisticsTest.cpp

Using xlog_dcx in non-regression script
The file xlog_dcx.py (imported in python via "import xlog_dcx" has been packaged in a stable path which works accross all envrionment. So stop copying this file in your own git repository or stop try to reach the NAS version found in mdw::Xlog::Instrumentation, or stop trying to replicate mdw::Xlog::Instrumentation and find the file in the BMS replication folder. This file is now available in the path /opt/1A/xlog-utils/latest. This small python snippet should allow you to correctly import it in your python scripts:
import sys
sys.path.append("/opt/1A/xlog-utils/latest")
import xlog_dcx
Note that the version found in mdw::Xlog::Instrumentation emits a warning in packs <= 21 and will be removed from pack 23.
________________________________________

OTF 19 Migration guide
From the client point of view, OTF 19 will be pretty similar to branch 19.
C++17 toolchain v19
OTF 19 supports only toolchain v19 with -std=gnu++17. Sorry but C++20 is just not ready yet, so we don't support it. There is a separate migration guide for toolchain v19, see From toolchain v4 (GCC 8.x/-std=gnu++17) to toolchain v19 (GCC 9.x/-std=gnu++17)
New policy about the default SI version
As for previous version, we only support the latest SI version (ie what's running in DEV, PDT, PPT2, PRD, and nothing else). Please make sure you update your SI version regularly when testing locally.
Transaction coordinator in multiple shot is deprecated
The usage of transaction coordinator in multiple shot has been explicitly deprecated (you will have a warning at build time when using it). It is both complex to implement on frontend side, and very inefficient (we have to ensure that only a single reply is processed at all time, so it is actually not parallel at all). You should use single shot instead. There is no good reason to use multiple shot since at least pack 12 (now the frontend tells you the exact timestamps when message was received, which was the only advantage of using multiple shot rather than single shot).
Support for multiple shot will be removed in the backend 21 (but kept in frontend till 22). The support of multiple shot in the frontend will be removed in frontend 23.
ORG no longer parsed in incoming messages
The security object and security context object are no longer created by using the incoming ORG, only the security part of the DCX is used (if any). This behavior can already be emulated in all recent OTF >= 14 by setting the OTF variable OTF_SECOBJ_TO_SECCTX_MIGRATION=NOORG. Without the variable, recent OTF >= 14 will yield a warning each time we detect an obvious conflict between the security part in the DCX and in the incoming ORG.
Reminder: you are NOT meant to authenticate internally using ORG (ie from an internal flow to an internal one). ORG shall only be used to target external Amadeus services, or to initially enter the SI complex without DCX. ONLY LSS has good reason to parse the ORG and build a DCX security part from it, regular applications shall NOT do that themselves.
We have no idea about the impact of doing that nor how to migrate your flow. In case you need help, contact the security guys: DG-Security-Middleware-Support@amadeus.local You have slightly more details here: Deprecation of SecurityObject
Queuing server/LQS/GQS migration
If you are migrating LQS/GQS/QueuingServer to pack 19, remember to change your deployment.xml to :
•	Set the tag to "ora19" in your "mdw" pack
•	Add the rdb::pack
You can find more info about the rdb::pack in the Migration Guide (MWPack 19).
Queuing server connection in a standalone binary (ie not an OTF backend)
Apparently there used to be in packs < 18 some few use cases of binaries which were not OTF backends but would still connect to a queuing server (aka LQS/GQS) in order to achieve some queuing management (for example, empty all queues, or put some elements in some queues). We expect this to be ONLY valid for local regression purpose, NOT for real production. The people having such case will for now need to rely on the special component mdw::OTF::internal::QueuingServerStandaloneImplementation. As the name reads, this component is in theory an internal component, and the only real supported users of this component is as of February 2021 the AML application and the team maintaining mdw::QueuingServer. We will only support these teams, for others use it at your own risk. Note that it will break from time to time, as there is absolutely no API/ABI compatibility guarantee on this component. You shall never use this component's API yourself, but only let mdw::QueuingServer use it (as the code in mdw::QueuingServer will evolve in the future, adapting to API changes in mdw::OTF::internal::QueuingServerStandaloneImplementation).
As of February 2021, the only way to use mdw::OTF::internal::QueuingServerStandaloneImplementation is by using aggregation (mode="aggregated in the BMS <dependency> tag). This may as well evolve in the future.
Note that we may delete old releases (ie more than 6 months old releases) of this component at any time, to make some space in our NAS/Artifactory delivery folder. So you may need to regularly update your pack to the latest minor version to avoid compilation/BMS issues with this component every 6 months.
You got the point: please don't use this component if you can avoid using it ! One possibility to avoid using it is to create an actual OTF batch doing the same thing as your standalone binary.
Security tokens/security keys version 2 has been removed
After being deprecated since pack 15, and in practice used by absolutely no one in any ADP MAG (as the security key table has been empty for years), the security tokens version 2 support has been entirely removed, starting from pack 15 already. It shall not affect any real production flow. You just may have deprecation warning/compilation error if you do use explicitly kSecTokenVersion_V2 in your code: you shall no longer use this value, make as if only kSecTokenVersion_V1 exists and is valid.
DU compatibility
Frontend / Backend
The OTF frontend 19 is not delivered anymore, and is right now used by no one.
You can already check that everything will still work fine without migrating to frontend 19 by setting the OTF variable OTF_BEINFOS_SERIALIZATION_VERSION=2 when using older MWPacks. X-ref Win@ record 12036998
HACS / Context server
The HACS 19 will only work correctly with the following context servers:
•	Any context server >= 16-0-0-70
•	Any context server >= 18
•	Any context server >= 19
Given that the HACS/Context server version is actually the frontend version, it means that you CAN'T directly upgrade the OTF component from MWPack <= 15 to MWPack 19. You will have to go for a indirect migration first, by either going to MWPack 16 or 18 first. This concerns only the OTF component, see above for the backend compatibility.
OTF variable changes
The default value of the following OTF variables have changed. In most cases, you can already test that this will not affect you without migrating to this pack by overriding the default value in older packs.
The default value of the following variables has changed compared to previous major branches:
•	OTF_SECOBJ_TO_SECCTX_MIGRATION now defaults to "NOORG" effectively ignoring the ORG buffer when building the security object. This paves the way in the same direction than this migration (Pack 18 migration - SecCtx, GAC, OfficeProfileAccessor) where now traffic must as much as possible have a DCX, security shall be conveyed in the DCX rather than by ORG, and people shall migrate to the security context instead of the security object. In case of problems here, please contact the security team at DG-Security-Middleware-Support@amadeus.local. Note that this variable will eventually be removed in later major packs, and eventually it won't be possible anymore to enable the ORG parsing in the security object, so please if you define this variable using another value than "NOORG", keep in mind this shall be only temporary.
•	OTF_DAEMON_RESET_DCX_EACH_RUN defaults to "yes" in recent backends (all the ones delivered after 04 Aug 2021). The consequence is that both GCX and DCX will be reset before each loop run in daemons. The historical behavior before this date was to NOT reset it (you get this result with value "no"). This variable will be removed in OTF 21.
The following OTF variables have been removed, so please stop setting them (reviewing all your OTF variables during a major MWPack migration is always a good idea):
•	OTF_ENABLE_CLIENT_CALL_INDEX_LOGGING
•	OTF_BEINFOS_SERIALIZATION_VERSION. X-ref Win@ record 12036998
API changes
•	PeakToken interface refactoring (no functional change):
o	file otf/ReroutingTokens.h has been renamed as otf/PeakReroutingToken.h
o	class PeakReroutingToken no longer inherits from DynamicReroutingToken
o	class DynamicReroutingToken has been removed, it did not correspond to anything with a functional use.
o	class OutboundReroutingToken has been renamed as DynamicOsapToken. You should not be using it, no dynamic OSAP exist in production as of today
Methods that were name after DynamicReroutingToken or taking this class in input / output now work with PeakReroutingToken instead
class	old method	new method
ClientSession	void setDynamicReroutingTokenList(const DynamicReroutingTokenPtrList&)	void setPeakReroutingTokenList(const PeakReroutingTokenPtrList&)
ClientSession	void setDynamicReroutingToken(const DynamicReroutingToken&)	void setPeakReroutingToken(const PeakReroutingToken&)
ClientSession	void delDynamicReroutingTokenList()	void delPeakReroutingTokenList()
ClientSession	const DynamicReroutingTokenConstPtrList& getDynamicReroutingTokenList() const	const PeakReroutingTokenConstPtrList& getPeakReroutingTokenList() const
ClientSession	void setDynamicOsapRoutingToken(const std::shared_ptr<const otf::OutboundReroutingToken>&)	void setDynamicOsapRoutingToken(const std::shared_ptr<const otf::DynamicOsapToken>&)
ClientSession	std::shared_ptr<const otf::OutboundReroutingToken> getDynamicOsapRoutingToken() const	std::shared_ptr<const otf::DynamicOsapToken> getDynamicOsapRoutingToken() const
DistributedContext	void addDynamicReroutingToken(const DynamicReroutingToken&)	void addPeakReroutingToken(const PeakReroutingToken&)
DistributedContext	const DynamicReroutingTokenConstPtrList& getDynamicReroutingTokenList() const	const PeakReroutingTokenConstPtrList& getPeakReroutingTokenList() const
Sender / resource::Sender	void setDynamicReroutingToken(const DynamicReroutingToken&)	void setPeakReroutingToken(const PeakReroutingToken&)
Sender / resource::Sender	void addDynamicReroutingToken(const DynamicReroutingToken&)	void addPeakReroutingToken(const PeakReroutingToken&)
Sender / resource::Sender	const DynamicReroutingTokenConstPtrList& getDynamicReroutingTokenList() const	const PeakReroutingTokenConstPtrList& getPeakReroutingTokenList() const
TransactionContext	const DynamicReroutingTokenConstPtrList& getInboundDynamicReroutingTokenList() const	const PeakReroutingTokenConstPtrList& getInboundPeakReroutingTokenList() const
•	Security token TTL
changed from unsigned int to std::chrono::steady_clock::duration&
class	old method	new method
otf::resources::Sender	void setSecurityTokenConfiguration(const std::string& iApplicationID, SecTokenVersion_t iVersion, unsigned int iTimeValidity);	void setSecurityTokenConfiguration(const std::string& iApplicationID, SecTokenVersion_t iVersion, const std::chrono::steady_clock::duration& iTimeValidity);
otf::Sender	void setSecurityTokenConfiguration(const std::string& iApplicationID, SecTokenVersion_t iVersion, unsigned int iTimeValidity);	void setSecurityTokenConfiguration(const std::string& iApplicationID, SecTokenVersion_t iVersion, const std::chrono::steady_clock::duration& iTimeValidity);
otf::ClientSession	void setSecurityTokenConfiguration(const std::string& iApplicationID, SecTokenVersion_t iVersion, unsigned int iTimeValidity);	void setSecurityTokenConfiguration(const std::string& iApplicationID, SecTokenVersion_t iVersion, const std::chrono::steady_clock::duration& iTimeValidity);
otf::ClientSession	unsigned int getSecurityTokenTimeValidity() const;	const std::chrono::steady_clock::duration& getSecurityTokenTimeValidity() const;
•	Payload construction for keep alives
class	old method	new method
otf: Payload	Payload(const otf::KeepAliveConfig&)	Payload(const otf: Payload::KeepAliveConfig&)
•	Some classes in OTF api are no longer copy-able. If you were doing copies, you were probably doing wrong.
Copy constructor and assignment operator (operator=) have been disabled on the following classes:
 list of classes
ContextServer
CoordinatedReply
 CrypticContext
CrypticPayloadOptions
CrypticServiceObject
DaemonObject
EdifactTools
EtoHandler
ExecutionTimeHandler
FlipManager
InboundCrypticMessage
InboundEdifactMessage
InboundMessage
InboundXMLMessage
InitializerObject
InitializerWrapper
InjectorObject
LocalObject
LocalServiceWrapper
MissingContextHandlerWrapper
Node
ObjectWrapper
PanelManager
Payload
PayloadUtils
ProcessWrapper
QueuesManager
RegistrationManager
Resources
RESTServiceObjectRegistrationManager
RESTServicePlugin
RESTServicePluginList
RunnableObject
SecurityManager
Sender
ServiceMiddlewarePluginList
ServiceObject
SignOutConfig
StatisticsManager
TimerManager
TransactionContext
TransactionCoordinator
TransactionCoordinatorInfos
•	Class renamed
Following classes have been renamed (class name and file name). An alias is usually present in earlier versions (starting from mdw 15).
old class	new class	compatibility
otf::RESTServiceObject	otf::Service	mdw 15
otf::RESTServiceObjectAllocatorInterface	otf::ServiceAllocatorInterface	mdw 15
otf::RESTServiceObjectAllocatorBaseInterface	otf::ServiceAllocatorBaseInterface	-
otf::StandardRESTServiceObjectAllocator	otf::StandardServiceAllocator	-
otf::RESTServiceObjectDefaultAllocator	otf::ServiceDefaultAllocator	-
otf::RESTServiceObjectInterface	otf::ServiceInterface	-
enum otf::encoding::Format_t	enum class otf::Encoding	change otf::encoding::kUTF8 into otf::Encoding::kUTF8
•	Removal of some security related function:
The methods otf::SecurityManager::getSecurityMapper and otf::SecurityManager::signSecurityContextWithOrgIfNotAlreadySigned have been totally removed in MWPack 19 after being explicitly marked as deprecated in MWPack 19. We consider that both use cases in MWPack 18 were very rare and that applications shall instead fix the underlying reason why they needed these functions. Shall you consider that doing that is really too blocking for you and you do need to migrate to MWPacks >= 19 then contact the OTF team to have these function re-added (still deprecated) in the API with a good justification and a time frame when it shall be removed again. Please note that otf::SecurityManager::getSecurityObject has already been added back to MWPack 18/19/21/22 following similar requests from our users that it made the migration very hard/impossible, so we are definitely open to put back deprecated APIs if there is a good motivation and justification for it.

•	Removal of some flip related function:
otf::FlipManager::GetUntoForMux has been removed. It used to have a special logic, if the passed string containted "mux" then it would return the same string with "1ASRFLIP" added as a prefix. Flip SAPs named "1ASRFLIP" have been decomissionned in PRD in summer 2022, we no longer use them. Instead, we use flip saps defined at farm level, which no longer depend on a particular mux. This effectively hides the SI topology to applications and to the "PE" side of the SI (the part of Amadeus code located in Airports connecting to the SI to ask for a special flip request). So, you should:
•
o	stop using SAPs named 1ASRFLIP* anywhere in your code and in your non regression. New flip farm SAP have a name like "FLP*" in PRD.
o	stop defining a flip sap at mux level (SI command "new mux MyMux -flp MyMuxFlipSap") and instead define it at farm level ("new farm MyFarm -flp MyFarmFlipSap")
o	Update your non regression to remove all the 1ASRFLIP prefixes everywhere.

•	The historical API for Protobuf payload management has been moved into the mdw::OTF BMS library and the otf:: namespace. The old name are kept till pack 23, but deprecated. Normally the compiler should tell you when you use a deprecated name (if you don't disable them explicitly), so please read and fix all warnings before upgrading to a bigger major pack. As a consequence you should:
o	Remove any BMS dependency to mdw::OTF::ProtobufFramework::Protobuf in favor of mdw::OTF which normally you already depend on.
o	Replace all C++ #include statement from "otf/protobuf/*.h" to "otf/*.h" (which can easily be modified via a sed replacement).
o	Replace all C++ namespace otf::protobuf:: usage by otf:: (which can easily be modified via a sed replacement).
•	The historical API of otf::HTTPHeaderValue has been modified (ie deprecated) in 2024. Historically this class used to provide two sets of getters and setters for "value" and "options". What was an "options" of a header ? Well we considered that all the headers used to follow the "Content-Type" header syntax, where anything that follows the semi-colon is a map of options. Our assumption was wrong, except "Content-Type", pretty much no HTTP header does use this syntax, and people who used "getValue" got only the truncated "main value" of the headers (ie everything before the semicolon). So, these accessors were deprecated, and instead we have introduced a set of "raw value" accessors (ie getRawValue/setRawValue), and two APIs allowing to parse/encode the specific "Content-Type" header: parseMainValueAndOptions & setMainValueAndOptions. Follow the detailed deprecation warning you get since pack 15 starting from september 2024 to correctly migrate these. The deprecated APIs will be removed in OTF 25.

________________________________________

kitPack migration: from 18 to 23
This page gives details on the changes required to go from latest kitPack 18-x-x-x to the latest kitPack 23-x-x-x.
•	Context
•	API changes kitPack 18->23
o	kitCommon: deprecated API removed
o	kitField: validate() API changed
o	kitHac: no API change
o	kitSimpleType: few API changed
o	kitCodeset: no API change
o	kitCodegen: no API change
o	kitPersistence: no API change in itself *but* changes in connection management in UP_SQL will make you alter your code
o	kitMultiling: no API change *but* read about transactions
o	kitBoostextra: fully decommissioned - not available anymore!
o	kitBcf: no API change
o	kitCppunit: fully decommissioned - not available anymore!
o	kitTimestat: no API change
o	kitParallel: no API change
o	kitNoSQLClient: possibly API change IF you didn't use the latest scope/collection API
o	kitBlob (and pyKitBlob incidentally): no API change
o	kitXdsc: no API change
o	kitOaf (not versioned anymore by kitPack)
o	kitUtils (not versioned anymore by kitPack)
•	Migration tips & tricks
o	General
o	BMS
o	OSP::ProtoBuf
o	ahpmw::kitField
•	GOTCHA: XDSC API changes (for XML messages) and more generally, comments on smart pointers & kitFactory
•	GOTCHA: unit tests with RFD and Oracle DB connections
•	GOTCHA: Oracle & UPSQL & UP_SQLInputRow and UP_SQLOutputRow
(GOTCHA’s are a list of issues not directly related to kitPack or hotel mdw but more for pitfalls, recurring questions we have received and we thing they can help ease the migration.)
Context
MWPack migrations guides are incremental so you may have to read all of these.
•	18 to 19 on Migration Guide (MWPack 19) and then
•	19 to 21 on Migration Guide (MWPack 21) and then
•	Migration Guide (MWPack 23)
We did the same but eventually MWPack19 went off and so was kitPack19 so we just have 2 guides.
•	kitPack migration: from 18 to 21
•	kitPack migration: from 21 to 23
But because we’re nice people, we just merged these 2 in the section below to addresse major changes when going kitPack 18->23.
Note that for specific OSP or MWP API changes though, you will have to check one of the 3 official guidelines above (so we recommend you skim over them in order to have an idea of what may impact you).
For us, the most significant are probably related to Oracle connection management - we tackle this in kitPersistence but for more specific case you may need to dig in the OSP/MWP guides.
API changes kitPack 18->23
kitCommon: deprecated API removed
A couple things that used to generate deprecation build warnings have been removed. Please fix your code and as usual: never ignore build and compilation warnings!
Now they may have been deprecated in MWP21 but since you skipped it, that may come as a shock but well - it’s not our decision to make you skip MWP21.
Recommendation for new projects: OK to use.
Rationale: actively maintained.
kitField: validate() API changed
The validate()  method signature changed: it used to be something like const T& validate(const T&) override but that not consistent and it mixed overriding with shadowing, which is basically not a good design.
Now it should be: void validate()override; everywhere so you get to update your code.
If you have fields of your own, please review and fix your validate()  method accordingly. Anyway, it's not like you will have an option as compilation will break.
Unless you do weird things, the change should be trivial: every place where you return'd something you just return and you check the value already set (this->_value instead of the parameter received).
•	# kitFld and derivated classes
•	Mass blunt replacements - use at your own risk - get a snapshot commit before & don't come crying because they ate your changes... Simpler is backup, apply, and look if the outcome looks ok or not. Rollback and fix otherwise.
•
•	sed -i -e 's/virtual const std::string& validate(const std::string .*\([;{]\)/void validate() override\1/g' **/*/Fld*hpp
•
•	sed -i -e 's/^const std::string& \(Fld.*\)::validate(const std::string& iValue) {/void \1::validate() override {/g' **/*/Fld*cpp
•
•	sed -i -e 's/virtual int32_t validate(int32.*\([;{]\)/void validate() override \1/g' **/*/Fld*hpp
•
•
•
See https://amadeus.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/AHPINT/pages/edit-v2/1877147976#[inlineExtension]Migration-tips-%26-tricks
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID.
Rationale: no significant problem but a few concerns with the design (like delayed exceptions: you can store garbage but it will thrown when you try to access it). It’s been used for years so difficult to get rid of it now…
kitHac: no API change
Same old odd API.
Recommendation for new projects: if your project is Hotel IT or in LinkHotel you MUST use it : plain GAC doesn't enforce the Hotel IT Security Model.
Rationale: no known problem but performance issue in some cases due to initial design flaws (and it cannot be fixed now easily)
kitSimpleType: few API changed
From https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHPF/repos/obe-mdw-kit-simpletype/browse/README.md?at=refs%2Fheads%2Frelease%2F21.0.0 (changes happened during the 19.x.x.x times)
•	removed all kit::Factory useless create since the constructors are public. If you can't get rid of your legacy constructors, use KIT::Factory<StyType>::instance->create(your constructor parameters)
•	Altered StyPeriod::toDOWPatternPeriods() signature: just returns a plain vector instead of a vector of KIT::factory allocated pointers
•	Multiple cleanups - slightly more const correct but not ideal due to some sloppy caching
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID.
Rationale: no significant known problem but serious design flaws that can't really be fixed now that it's been used a lot for years - same issues as for kitField.
kitCodeset: no API change
Same old API.
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID. Not supported for Hotel IT. Only makes sense for Hotel Distribution.
Rationale: we (PMT) only package and fix warnings and have zero knowledge on what it should be doing (= "the code is the specification").
IMPORTANT: if you do use the component, be aware there is ZERO testing
kitCodegen: no API change
The code generated may have been slightly been updated for newer C++ but that should be seamless.
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID
Rationale: it only makes sense when used with kitPersistence, and that one should be avoided too (overengineered and subtle error cases).
kitPersistence: no API change in itself *but* changes in connection management in UP_SQL will make you alter your code
Change #1: kitPersistence relies on the availability of a default connection.
It's not the preferred mode anymore for UPSQL now, but kitPersistence cannot support multiple connections cleanly, without a major redesign.
This is the case for OHF (which will manage the change so it will be seamless for you), for instance but it is not the case in unit tests.

In practice, you will have to alter your code to set up your default connection yourself. But despair not, for we've been here before you, so you can look at a few examples:
•	unittest's main.cpp: https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHPF/repos/obe-mdw-kit-persistence/browse/test/main.cpp?at=refs%2Fheads%2Frelease%2F19.0.1#49-50
•	and https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHPF/repos/obe-mdw-kit-persistence/browse/test/ConnectionPoolRaiiHelper.hpp?at=release/19.0.1 (you should be able to steal this code mostly as is)
The reference documentation is there: https://amadeus.atlassian.net/wiki/display/UPSQL/15.+Connection+oriented+APIs
Change #2: KIT::PstBOFactory → KIT::Factory
kitPersistence used to have its own memory factories KIT:PstBOFactory (BO for Business Object even if Factory stinks  ) which were indeed the same as KIT::Factory. So we just used the latter there as well.
Just run the search and replace sed 1-liner below and that should be it
sed -i -e 's/\<PstBOFactory\>/Factory/g' **/*.?pp
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID using this and try to go for direct UP_SQL. The code generated is usually 1/ smaller and 2/ more readable.
Rationale: overengineered design that hides what really happens under useless layers of abstraction that obfuscate the code in crazy convoluted ways. So were the late 2000s :-)
kitMultiling: no API change *but* read about transactions
kitMultiling: we had odd things with transactions.
Note: there was no testing prior to MWP19 so there may have similar things, but we just didn't know then...
If you don't activate transaction, you may get odd errors in unit tests: from https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHPF/repos/obe-mdw-kit-multiling/pull-requests/75/overview
This being said, trx should probably have been used ***way before*** as, since the beginning: like you retrieveLock(select ... for update) but what does it mean if there is no trx around? Lock and immediately unlock? Makes little sense.

This is odd because we already are in Ora19 from mwpack19 so there must be something that changed between clients or session settings...
We also noticed some issues with cursor leaks in kitPst 21 with earlier mwpack 21 versions and these issues got solved automagically with a newer mwpack21.

(There are more #if NEED_DB_TRANSACTION than in this diff as I started adding them in pack 18 to confirm that something changed.)
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID.
Rationale: knowledge and expertise available are limited. The design and API are impractical. You will most likely be on your own to investigate issues.
kitBoostextra: fully decommissioned - not available anymore!
The last version was in kitpack19. kitpack18 has been writing obnoxious compilation warning for years now.
You had been warned and should already have migrated to std::regex or boost::regex for instance.
kitBcf: no API change
No significant API change.
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID.
Rationale: very limited expertise and knowledge - you will mostly be on your own.
kitCppunit: fully decommissioned - not available anymore!
The last version was in kitpack19. kitpack18 has been writing obnoxious compilation warning for years now.
You had been warned and should already have migrated to Google Test (way better and not that complicated - we did it for all mdw and several applicative components and it’s ).
You can try plain CppUnit but but Google Test is better in our opinion.
kitTimestat: no API change
Recommendation for new projects: OK to use.
Rationale: actively maintained.
kitParallel: no API change
Recommendation for new projects: OK to use.
Rationale: actively maintained.
kitNoSQLClient: possibly API change IF you didn't use the latest scope/collection API
If you are on the old API (without Scope/Client), you must migrate to the Scope/Client API. You can already do that in the latest kitPack18. Check the README.md for migration guidelines.
If you are on the latest API (the one with Scope/Client support), the API hasn't changed.
Tips: These few sed 1-liners may help you update some code for kvclient / NoSQLClient:
# kitNosqlclient & KVClient

sed -i -e 's/\<KIT::MultiGetKeyValue\>/KIT::nosql::Value/g' **/*.?pp
sed -i -e 's,<kvclient/KVClient.hpp>,<kvclient/Client.hpp>,g' **/*.?pp
sed -i -e 's,\<kvclient::KVClient\>,kvclient::Client,g' **/*.?pp
sed -i -e 's,\<kvclient/KVException.hpp\>,kvclient/Exception.hpp,g' **/*.?pp
Recommendation for new projects:
•	OK to use (but mostly for IT and only supports NoSQL queries : it will NOT support N1QL)
•	for Hotel Distribution, you should use mdw::KVclient directly
•	if you need to run N1QL queries, you must use mdw::KVclient as well
Rationale: actively maintained (but mostly for Hotel IT shopping 's nosql) - there will be no addition to support N1QL queries as it's been designed to fit Hotel IT shopping needs before kvclient was an option.
kitBlob (and pyKitBlob incidentally): no API change
No API change.
Recommendation for new projects: OK to use.
Rationale: actively maintained.
kitXdsc: no API change
No API change.
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID and try to use mdw::XDSC directly instead to generate your grammars.
Rationale: kitXdsc is sort of a hack over mdw::XDSC.
kitOaf (not versioned anymore by kitPack)
kitOaf received multiple changes as it's a layer on top of OHF which is a layer on top of OTF.
Check https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHPF/repos/obe-mdw-kit-oaf/browse/README.md.
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID.
•	Hotel IT: forbidden if you use it, get rid of it because you’re doing it wrong.
•	Hotel Distribution: not supported and consider finding a better option migrate away.
Rationale:
•	limited clarity on what is expected (same issue as for PST and BCF = complex framework from the late 2000s so problems that are considered in the 2020s as design flaws).
•	Cannot easily follow the changes done on OTF & limited support for REST.
•	And it's not tested so you will mostly have to lead your own investigations.
Since it's not part of kitPack, we have a bit more option to do non binary compatible releases, BUT you will have to synchronize with all your library mdw providers which may be OAF users.
kitUtils (not versioned anymore by kitPack)
Check https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHPF/repos/obe-mdw-kit-utils/browse/README.md for further details, pending more update here.
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID.
•	Hotel IT: forbidden if you use it, get rid of it because you’re doing it wrong.
•	Hotel Distribution: not supported and consider finding a better option migrate away.
Rationale: depends on OAF so the same rationale applies.
Migration tips & tricks
Test/blitz port PR's to assess what needs to be done - done as is in the hope the may be useful and test the kitPack / symbol exports:
•	DEC2023: https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHFR/repos/obe-mdw-kit-hsp/pull-requests/293/overview : mdw HSP - no problem (~2h) - good : builds with bms
•	JUL2023: https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHCI/repos/obe-mdw-hcf/pull-requests/1516/overview : many problems due to tech debt - kitCppUnit - kitFld - higher C++ templates & protobuf code generated API change with variadic templates (maybe 1d - but much more needed due to techdebt and lack of unitesting...) - good : builds with bms
•	JUL2023: https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHCI/repos/obe-mdw-fcar/pull-requests/110/overview : mdw - no major problem (~2h) - good : builds with bms
The tips below may be useful and come from our experience creating kitpack23 itself or integrating it in early candidates (other applicative middleware or applications).
General
•	AmdInc.h has to be removed. This should have been done when you migrated to 18 by the eway
sed -i -e '/^ *#include  *<AmdInc.h>/d' **/*.cpp **/*.hpp **/*.h
•	Get rid of std::unary_function and std::binary_function: most of the times, you can just remove them and don't need replacing them. That comes from newer C++.
BMS
•	bmsrc (switch to the non NAS path to be more future proof!)
•	.bms/bmsrc
•	-include_conf = /projects/comdelde/configuration/18.0.0/bms/config/bmsrc/bmsrc.global
+include_conf = /opt/1A/mdw-configuration/23.0.0/bms/config/bmsrc/bmsrc.global
•	**/Forest.xml & **/Description.xml
•	# This is never up to date... so just remove them
•	sed -i 's,<contactPoint>.*</contactPoint>,<contactPoint/>,g'  **/Forest.xml **/Description.xml
•
•	# These middleware are most of the times useless for regular applications and s: just remove these before running a bms deps -kb --repair
•	sed -i '/<dependency name="mdw::ACF"/d' **/Forest.xml **/Description.xml
•	sed -i '/<dependency name="osp::Boost::system"/d' **/Forest.xml **/Description.xml
•	sed -i '/<dependency name="osp::JsonSpirit"/d' **/Forest.xml **/Description.xml
sed -i '/<dependency name="osp::ICU"/d' **/Forest.xml **/Description.xml
OSP::ProtoBuf
•	Protobuf generator to patch in Description.xml's
•	Change (C++ bindings generator)
•	<generator name="osp::ProtoBuf" configfile="protoconf/proto.cfg" options="--proto_path=protosrc --cpp_out=src/genprotobuf -I src/genprotobuf protosrc/*.proto" depends="protosrc"/>
•	to:
•	<generator name="osp::ProtoBuf::protoc" configfile="protoconf/proto.cfg" options=" --proto_path=protosrc --cpp_out="dllexport_decl='__attribute__((visibility(&quot;default&quot;)))':src/genprotobuf" -I src/genprotobuf protosrc/*.proto" depends="protosrc"/>
•
•	Change (Python bindings generator)
•	<generator name="osp::ProtoBuf" configfile="protoconf/protopy.cfg" options="--proto_path=protosrc --python_out=src/genpyprotobuf -I src/genpyprotobuf protosrc/*.proto" depends="protosrc"/>
•	to
<generator name="osp::ProtoBuf::protoc" configfile="protoconf/protopy.cfg" options=" --proto_path=protosrc --python_out=src/genpyprotobuf -I src/genpyprotobuf protosrc/*.proto" depends="protosrc"/>
ahpmw::kitField
•	Fld's validate: this is where you may spend a bit more more time:
•	Assess problems:
•
grep 'KIT::Fld' $(rgrep 'validate(' . | cut -d \: -f 1 |sort -u) | cut -d \: -f 1 | sort -u | wc -l ==> about the number of classes / validate() that  will need patching & reviewing
Then go over the files and do some change like that - if you want to know why? The API had been somewhat half-baked for years and mixing shadowing an overriding.
Basically : use setValid() and setInvalid() instead of setState().
If you need the value set, use this->_value instead of the value received in parameter.
Remove / replace the return values in the implementation of validate().


diff --git a/proxy/include/hcf/FldPropertyMigrationStatus.hpp b/proxy/include/hcf/FldPropertyMigrationStatus.hpp
index 40b94a78..c82e0e41 100644
--- a/proxy/include/hcf/FldPropertyMigrationStatus.hpp
+++ b/proxy/include/hcf/FldPropertyMigrationStatus.hpp
@@ -29,7 +29,7 @@ class FldPropertyMigrationStatus : public KIT::FldFixStringUtf8<0, 10> {
   FldPropertyMigrationStatus(const FldPropertyMigrationStatus& iValue);

  protected:
-  virtual const std::string& validate(const std::string& iValue);
+  void validate() override;
 };
 }

diff --git a/proxy/src/field/FldPropertyMigrationStatus.cpp b/proxy/src/field/FldPropertyMigrationStatus.cpp
index 00e1730d..b361dfbf 100644
--- a/proxy/src/field/FldPropertyMigrationStatus.cpp
+++ b/proxy/src/field/FldPropertyMigrationStatus.cpp
@@ -32,16 +32,15 @@ FldPropertyMigrationStatus::FldPropertyMigrationStatus(const FldPropertyMigratio
   }
 }

-const std::string& FldPropertyMigrationStatus::validate(const std::string& iValue) {
+void FldPropertyMigrationStatus::validate() {
   // Verify, that the value is part of the valid subset of values defined for brand marketing lines
   if (this->_value== FldPropertyMigrationStatusValues::DEFAULT || this->_value == FldPropertyMigrationStatusValues::ACTIVATED
       || this->_value == FldPropertyMigrationStatusValues::PARTIAL
       || this->_value == FldPropertyMigrationStatusValues::FULL) {
-    this->_state.setState(KIT::FldState::VALID);
+      setValid();
   }
   else {
-    this->_state.setState(KIT::FldState::INVALID);
+      setInvalid();
   }
-  return iValue;
 }
 }

•	C++ modernization / scriptlets
•	# C++ Get rid of your std::unary_function and std::binary_function: most of the times, you can just remove them and don't need replacing them.
•
•
•	# kitFld and derivated classes
•	Mass blunt replacements - use at your own risk - get a snapshot commit before & don't come crying because they ate your changes... Simpler is backup, apply, and look if the outcome looks ok or not. Rollback and fix otherwise.
•
•	sed -i -e 's/virtual const std::string& validate(const std::string .*\([;{]\)/void validate() override\1/g' **/*/Fld*hpp
•
•	sed -i -e 's/^const std::string& \(Fld.*\)::validate(const std::string& iValue) {/void \1::validate() override {/g' **/*/Fld*cpp
•
•	sed -i -e 's/virtual int32_t validate(int32.*\([;{]\)/void validate() override \1/g' **/*/Fld*hpp
GOTCHA: XDSC API changes (for XML messages) and more generally, comments on smart pointers & kitFactory
mdw::XDSC’s decodeBuffer() : it used to return a raw pointer allocated by new up to MWP21.
But they eventually changed their API for good and for more modern C++: decodeBuffer() which used to return a raw pointer T* allocated by new now returns a smart pointer unique_ptr<T>.
Your old code probably registered some pointer in a KIT Factory (via calls to ScheduleDeletion or XMLPtrRegister) so you cannot just use std::unique_ptr<T>'s get() as the memory is really owned by the unique_ptr<>.
To transfer the memory ownership to a KIT::Factory you must call unique_ptr’s release() - this will render the unique_ptr empty after the call - and will avoid double delete’s (the delete by the unique_ptr destructor and the one by the Factory cleaner).
The change can have side effects if not handled properly as it causes few changes in memory ownership.

KIT Factories "own" the pointers registered in it: which means it will take care of their deletion.
You can create a new pointer by calling create() and it will give you a raw pointer (non owning) that you can use, as long as the factory holds the pointer.
You can register an external pointer - but it must have been created via newwhich means: you can play with your raw pointer and it becomes non-owning because the factory will take care of the object deletion.
Usually, you will see a KIT::MemAutoCleaner object created at the beginning of your usecase: this object destructor will, upon its destruction at the end of the scope, ask *every* KIT::Factory it knows to release all the objects they have in their list (=those created natively via a Factoru and also the external ones whose ownership has beenm registered in or transferred to the Factory) - so it will delete many objects. This is what we’d call “old-school 1A C++” pattern.
With unique_ptr<T> the owner of the memory is the smart pointer object itself and upon its destruction at the end of the scope, it will call delete.
unique_ptr<T> provides 2 ways to deal with the raw pointer it wraps: get() and release()
get() gives you a non-owning raw pointer, which is valid as long as the unique_ptr<T> is alive.
release() though, will transfer ownership: it will give you an OWNING raw pointer and reset the internal pointer in the `unique_ptr` (if you get() after a release() it will be nullptr): this means you will have to take care of that pointer deletion & if you lose it, your code will leak. A way to do that, is to register in a KIT::Factory and this will make the Factory, the new owner which will take care of the object deletion (and thus extends the object life beyond the current scope).
There are a few ways to register external pointers in KIT Factories (external in the sense: created by new but not by the factory itself):
1/ You can use Factory<T>::instance()->scheduleDeletion(rawPointerOnT);
2/ For XML messages you had also the helper: XmlPtrRegisterer<XmlTargetType> that was just a shortlink on scheduleDeletion(): see example below
See example:
https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHPF/repos/obe-mdw-kit-bcf/pull-requests/178/diff#src/api/include/kit/CatalogXmlContentIO.hpp
3/ In some case,you can decide to not register in the factory but be careful as you need to make sure you don’t leak any memory - so there are a few more checks to do. Feel free to ask for a review (5min now can save hours to investigated a core dump later…)
See example:
https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHPF/repos/obe-mdw-kit-bcf/pull-requests/177/diff#src/svc/include/kit/SenEDI_OHF.hpp
GOTCHA: unit tests with RFD and Oracle DB connections

The change in connection management in UP_SQL (see above: See https://amadeus.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/AHPINT/pages/edit-v2/1877147976#kitPersistence%3A-no-API-change-in-itself-*but*-changes-in-connection-management-in-UP_SQL-will-make-you-alter-your-code) may also have some impacts in your unit tests if they also need to access RFD data.
You may have to fix your unit tests connection pool helper to include RFD initialization (see below for how to).
Symptoms:
... MyUnitTestBinary DB CRIT [0/] <UP_SQLDBConnectionPool.cpp#156 TID#673557248> Pool is not initialized
... MyUnitTestBinary MDW WARN [4/kRFDErr_FailedRequest] <UP_CRBApiTable.h#661 TID#673557248> Search failed: Origin: 8000 | SubCode: 0 | SpecificCode: 0 | Description: Pool is not initialized
If you use the basic ConnectionPoolRaiiHelper (BTB “real” link https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHCI/repos/obe-mdw-hcf/pull-requests/1616/diff#improvedPluginTest%2Ftest%2Fsrc%2FConnectionPoolRaiiHelper.hpp ) or:
// ////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
// Copyright of this program is the property of AMADEUS, without
// whose written permission reproduction in whole or in part is prohibited.
// ////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

#pragma once

#include <UP_SQLDBConnectionPool.h>
#include <UP_SQLDBConnectionType.h>
#include <RFD_ApiConnectionHandler.h>  /// <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<< new line

class ConnectionPoolRaiiHelper {
 private:
  struct InternalHelper {
    InternalHelper() {
      UP_SQLDBConnectionPool::Init();
      RFD_ApiConnectionHandler::Init(); /// <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<< new line
    }
    ~InternalHelper() {
      RFD_ApiConnectionHandler::Close();  /// <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<< new line
      UP_SQLDBConnectionPool::Close();
    }
  };

  // The order of definition matters: the cnx must be destroyed before the pool
  InternalHelper _internalHelper;
  UP_SQLActivePooledConnection _cnx;

 public:
  ConnectionPoolRaiiHelper(const std::string& iDbSchema,
                           const std::string& iDbService,
                           const std::string& iDbUser,
                           const std::string& iDbPassword)
      : _cnx(UP_SQLDBConnectionType(iDbSchema, iDbService, iDbUser, iDbPassword)) {
  }

  ~ConnectionPoolRaiiHelper() = default;
};
GOTCHA: Oracle & UPSQL & UP_SQLInputRow and UP_SQLOutputRow
If you face problems with UP_SQLInputRow or UP_SQLOutputRow, please be aware there has been a recommendation made with MWP21 migration guide that went like:
"UP_SQLInputRow and UP_SQLOutputRow can't be reused anymore in many queries unless they are cleared before reused"

________________________________________

<UP_SQLDBConnectionPool.cpp#156 TID#86399488> Pool is not initialized in UT stdout
upsql::sqlite::UP_SQLDBConnectionPool::Init();
status = RUN_ALL_TESTS();
upsql::sqlite::UP_SQLDBConnectionPool::Close();

float comparison warning as error
use disable pragmas in the minimal possible scope

________________________________________

•	KvClient mdw changes :
Another change was related to the KvClient middleware which handles Couchbase operations, there were headers renamed and classes that were previously defined and bundled together were separated to different hpp/cpp files, some methods were also removed (such as ::query() under N1QLClient). These changes however were introduced in KVClient Pack 19, given that we are skipping versions to the MDW version 23, more changes should be expected. Here are the changes related to KvClient : Migration to KvClient Pack 19
•	according this migration guide :
OTF 19 Migration guide
#include <otf/RESTServiceObject.h> changed to #include <otf/Service.h>
and otf::StandardRESTServiceObjectAllocator to be changed to otf::StandardServiceAllocator
General
•	From toolchain v18 (gnu++17) to toolchain v23 (gnu++23)
•	Iterator Inheritance Removal Issue:
The previous implementation of GenericMemberIterator inherited from std::iterator has been deprecated since C++17 and removed in C++20.
-> Removing the inheritance and doing an explicit implementation of iterator traits manually to ensure compatibility with C++23. (Reference)
•	Const-Correctness in Version Comparison Operators:
In C++17, the comparison operators (operator< and operator==) were not const-qualified, potentially modifying the Version object. In C++23, this breaks const-correctness when used with constant objects.
-> Add the const qualifier to the member function declarations for the comparison operators. This explicitly indicates that the operators will not modify the object. (Reference)
•	Header Inclusion <cstdint> in C++23:
The compiler throws a build error if <cstdint> is not explicitly included, as it defines fixed-width integer types like uint64_t.
-> Explicitly include the <cstdint> header to ensure proper definition of fixed-width integer types..
•	https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/copy_elision
std::move is removed to allow copy elision. Using std::move on a temporary prevents the compiler from applying copy elision

