Migration Guide (MWPack 21)
•	Removed components
•	Late components
•	Toolchain V21
•	BMS Config files
o	Changelogs
	Manual Deliveries
	CI/CD Deliveries through Jenkins
	Removing changelogs generation
•	OSPack 21 Main changes
•	Batch job helpers
•	batch_env.sh is deprecated
•	Toolbox
•	ABRClient
•	ACF
•	CacheFramework
•	CrypticCodec::ParserGrGen
•	CryptoManager
•	DBConfParser and OHF
•	EZT
•	GdmContainerGenerator
•	HeapFileMap
•	KVClient
•	OHF
•	OTF
•	QFC
o	Removed headers
o	Removal of Option Setters
o	Miscellaneous
•	QueuingServer (aka LQS or GQS)
•	TBF::api
•	Tracer
•	UP_SQL
•	Web::HtmlKit
•	mdw::CppUnit
•	mdw::Web::Framework
•	Using xlog_dcx in non-regression script

Removed components
•	mdw::Web::HtmlTools is removed as no longer used.
Late components
•	mdw::KVClient is not delivered in the initial R21 releases. it will be added by the end of 2021. cf KVClient for more details.
Toolchain V21
•	The C++ version used is C++20 (-std=gnu++20).
•	The toolchain name is: "x86_64-v21". The same naming convention that for toolchain v19 is used, which differs from the packs <= 18. Please read the migration guide for pack 19 for more details.
•	As for toolchain v19, SLES 11 is NOT supported. Potentially other distros will fall into the "not supported" state as well as time moves on (ie typically for RHEL 7).
•	See the toolchain migration guide here From toolchain v19 (GCC 9.x/-std=gnu++17) to toolchain v21 (GCC 11.x/-std=gnu++20)
BMS Config files
As usual  new bms reference configuration files are delivered. General info can be found in BMS Migration Information.
Changelogs
All BMS configuration files provided by MDW now include the changelog plugin by default in the delivery phase. From R21 all MDW components deliveries will include a changelog JSON file that can be consulted through Packboard or directly downloaded from the doc artifact of the delivery.
The changelog plugin allows to keep a trace of the changes between 2 deliveries in an almost transparent way. It's particularly useful for small components deliveries that most of the time do not include any release notes.
As changelogs are based on commit messages, a particular attention should be put in their redaction. For more details please refer to the BMS changelog plugin documentation.
Manual Deliveries
Just make sure that you have pulled all tags locally
git fetch --tags
CI/CD Deliveries through Jenkins
You just need to update a Jenkins setting to fetch tags. This update is done once for all
1 - In your Jenkins Isolation Zone, go to your component Jenkins Pipeline and Select Configure
 Screenshot 1

2 - Then, check "Fetch tags" in "Branch sources" → "Advanced Clone Behaviours"
 Screenshot 2

Removing changelogs generation
In case you don't want to generate changelogs just update your project bms configuration file with
[deliver]
plugins -= changelog
OSPack 21 Main changes
OSPack Main Changes 21
Batch job helpers
For batch jobs please use the helpers (otf_batch_launcher.sh and batch_env.sh) delivered in MWPack. They are bundled in all packs of supported major releases delivered since 21 Jul 2020.
Please delete both scripts from your repository and update your batch wrappers:
# for otf_batch_launcher.sh
- CMD="${OBEAPP_ROOT}/cmp/shell/otf_batch_launcher.sh cmp CMP_MyBatch -t ${OBEAPP_ROOT}/com/etc/CMP_MyBatch.traceconf"
+ CMD="${OBEAPP_ROOT}/cmp/pack/MDW/bin/otf_batch_launcher.sh cmp CMP_MyBatch -t ${OBEAPP_ROOT}/com/etc/CMP_MyBatch.traceconf"

# for batch_env.sh
- . ${OBEAPP_ROOT}/cmp/shell/batch_env.sh cmp
+ . ${OBEAPP_ROOT}/cmp/pack/MDW/bin/batch_env.sh cmp
batch_env.sh is deprecated
The "bin/batch_env.sh" script, that people used to source to get the environment to be able to run C++ non-OTF batch executable is deprecated. It's wrong in general to "source" the toolchain environment in a shell and do expect that everything will work correctly: many system executable will then fail to run, because some libraries of the OSPack do conflict with some libraries of the system. So the way this script works is too error prone. Instead, you shall use a new wrapper, "bin/non_otf_batch_launcher.sh" just as you want to run your C++ non-OTF batch executable. It's a wrapper, so you shall pass to the script the actual C++ executable you wish to execute, with its arguments. See and example of diff where this change was performed here https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/DATREP/repos/jobframework/commits/b51e40a8619356adf5c6a3a1554e3488f16e101d#app_root%2Fcomponent%2Fjfk%2Fshell%2Fstart_housekeep_bin.sh

--- a/app_root/component/jfk/shell/start_housekeep_bin.sh
+++ b/app_root/component/jfk/shell/start_housekeep_bin.sh
@@ -13,8 +13,6 @@ fi
# Source the setenv of the OBE
. ${OBEAPP_ROOT}/com/etc/setenv

-. ${OBEAPP_ROOT}/jfk/pack/MDW/bin/batch_env.sh ${COMP}
-
export JOBFRAMEWORK_USE_OHF=Y
export AMDORA_XMLDBFILE=${OBEAPP_ROOT}/${COMP}/conf/databases.xml
export DATABASE_NAME=JFK
@@ -26,7 +24,7 @@ export TRACECONFIGCOMMONFILE=batch_otfjobhousekeeper.traceconf
#aBin=${OBEAPP_ROOT}/${COMP}/pack/MDW/bin/batch_otfjobhousekeeper
aBin=${OBEAPP_ROOT}/${COMP}/bin/batch_otfjobhousekeeper

-${aBin} -P $PHASE $@
-aStatus=$?
+"${OBEAPP_ROOT}/${COMP}/pack/MDW/bin/non_otf_batch_launcher.sh" "${aBin}" -P "${PHASE}" "$@"
+aStatus="$?"

echo "Status: $aStatus"
Toolbox
•	The behavior of the operator!= with a toolbox::BoundedString and std::string has changed compared to previous packs. The best way to avoid this problem is to make sure you DON'T use this operator. This is motivated that operator== and operator!= don't do the same comparison, while C++20 mandates that one should be deducible from the other and that they have an equivalent comparison. In order to warn people about that, we enforce they DON'T use it at all starting from pack 15, with this commit https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/MWP/repos/toolbox/commits/99f54d61afb542374c1a967813db76f16ee1156e. So to migrate, just make sure your existing code uses a pack between 15 and 19 (included), make sure you migrate to the latest mdw::Toolbox, run "bms clean", then "bms build". If you have warnings coming from toolbox::BoundedString about some deprecated declarations it means you are affected. The long deprecation message explains how to change your code depending on the case.
•	The class toolbox::OString has been deprecated. Replace this by std::string when you want to own the string, and by std::string_view when you don't own the string. Pay special attention if you serialize the toolbox::OString class as the serialization format is NOT serialized a std::string, but as a raw pointer to const char.
•	The macros _MDW_STACK_AUTO_ and _MDW_ADD_STACKFRAME_ have been been explicitly poisoned. It expands to nothing in previous packs.
•	The macro __AMD_FUNCNAME__ has been  explicitly poisoned. It expands to __PRETTY_FUNCTION__ in previous packs.
•	The type toolbox::Hashtable and toolbox::Hash have been explicitly deprecated. Replace the hashtable by std::unordered_map and the hash function with std::hash. However be very careful with char*/const char*, the right replacement for toolbox::Hash<char*>/toolbox::Hash<const char*> is std::hash<std::string_view>, using std::hash<const char*> will yield a *DIFFERENT* behavior (entries won't be equal even if the key is equal but in a different place in memory).
•	The copy constructor of toolbox::Unmarshaller is deprecated since pack 15. Technically, another version taking a bool "iMustCopy" as a second parameter exists, but ideally you really should not copy the unmarshaller object. Read the deprecation message which gives you some clue on how you should adapt your code to overcome this change.
ABRClient
All the following management functions has a new parameter which allow to encode rule content as blob data type in IRuleManagementInterface class:
•	createRule
•	updateRule
•	createRules
•	updateRules
•	validateCreateRule
•	validateUpdateRule
•	createTemporaryRule
•	createPendingCreateRule
•	createPendingUpdateRule
This parameter is optional and its default value is set to false. In case you want to set the rule content as blob data type, you'll need to pass it and set it to true.
ACF
•	Reminder: no one is meant to use mdw::ACF except few middleware component. The API of ACF may evolve in at each minor or major release in unpredictable ways. The only valid users of ACF are to date: SI/OTF/Tracer, and will be the only component we will take care of when ACF will change in an incompatible way.
•	You have to remove all references to mdw::ACF in all your repositories. Please read mdw::ACF decomissioning.
CacheFramework
•	Please consider CacheFramework deprecated and start looking for a new solution. The synchronisation part is replaced by GMC. The cache part should be redesigned while avoiding HeapFileMap.
CrypticCodec::ParserGrGen
The Java application delivered in the Cryptic Parser Generator requires at least a Java 8 VM.
CryptoManager
The permissions of the configuration file in CryptoManager must be set up properly. This was a warning in earlier Packs and is now enforced in Pack 21.
If the permissions are not correctly set then the component will refuse to start. Please refer to this page for more details: Permissions of configuration file
DBConfParser and OHF
TAF and FAN are removed from the connection definition, they should be removed from DB configuration files (databases.xml)
    <connection_defaults> or <connection name="name">
      <service>service</service>
      <base_queue_schema>base_schema</base_queue_schema>
      <taf>                     ---> Removed
        <retries>10</retries>   ---> Removed
        <delay>100</delay>      ---> Removed
      </taf>                    ---> Removed
      <trace_mode>ON</trace_mode>
      <fan_mode>OFF</fan_mode>  ---> Removed

   </connection_defaults> or </connection>
mdw::OHF::gdDeliveryDaemon and mdw::OHF:gdInboundAcceptor used to publish a copy of mdw::OHF::main's headers, under the ohf/gd folder. These headers were removed. This should have no impact whatsoever, as you should already be using mdw::OHF::main's version of the headers.
EZT
If you implement your own EZT API object you may need to rework your BindKey() and BindValue() implementations. Before it was tolerated by UP_SQL to reuse without first cleaning UP_SQLInputRow or UP_SQLOutputRow objects. Now it will fail with an exception. Here is an example of such rework.
GdmContainerGenerator
The Java application delivered in The GDM Container Generator requires at least a Java 8 VM.
The support of this generator on Windows platform (in particular via Cygwin) has been abandoned.
HeapFileMap
•	The internal data members of the objects heapfilemap::ref, heapfilemap::const_ref and heapfilemap::Array are now private. For heapfilemap::ref/const_ref, the chances you are accessing the relative distance to the current object address is really low and probably useless from a client perspective. For heapfilemap::Array, the accessor have been existing for ages, so use them.
•	Due the design of this library (copy/paste of old STL headers, old version of librt) and the encountered difficulty to maintain this component across the different versions of gcc, current and future users are invited to look at some alternatives that could fit there need (a convenient alternative is boost::interprocess which unfortunately does not come with backward compatibility of the serialization format). New users are advised to not use this library. If no alternatives fit your needs, please contact us to discuss what could be done.
KVClient
KVClient is delivered only since MDW Pack 21-0-0-96. You can check the releases notes of the various KVClient versions on this page.
OHF
Cf DBConfParser and OHF
OTF
OTF 21 Migration guide
QFC
Removed headers
The following headers have been removed from public API:
•	qfc/lqs/DirectConnection.h
•	qfc/api/Handle.h
You shouldn't need them, so simply stop #include'ing them. Please contact us if it turns out you do need them.
Removal of Option Setters
Options Setters have been removed. They were statics method meant to call setters of Queuer, Dequeuer, Message and Queue, as they would be options of the constructor. They have nearly the same signature as the setters except the capital letter. They are rarely used and can lead to bugs when they are used instead of the setter. This also cleans up our code. To sum up, the following variables and methods are not available anymore :
•	Dequeuer dequeue mode:
o	DeQueuer::SetBrowseMode → DeQueuer::MD_BROWSE;
o	DeQueuer::SetLockedMode → DeQueuer::MD_LOCKED;
o	DeQueuer::SetRemoveMode → DeQueuer::MD_REMOVE;
o	DeQueuer::SetNoDataMode → DeQueuer::MD_NODATA;
o	DeQueuer::SetMode → DeQueuer::setMode;
•	Dequeuer visibility:
o	DeQueuer::SetVisibilityImmediate → DeQueuer::VS_IMMEDIATE;
o	DeQueuer::SetVisibilityOnCommit → DeQueuer::VS_ON_COMMIT;
o	DeQueuer::SetVisibility → DeQueuer::setVisibility;
•	Dequeuer navigation:
o	DeQueuer::SetNavigationFirstMessage → DeQueuer::NV_FIRST_MESSAGE;
o	DeQueuer::SetNavigationNextMessage → DeQueuer::NV_NEXT_MESSAGE;
o	DeQueuer::SetNavigationNextTransaction → DeQueuer::NV_NEXT_TRANSACTION;
o	DeQueuer::SetNavigation → DeQueuer::setNavigation;
•	Dequeuer miscellaneous:
o	DeQueuer::SetToAgent → No replacement, completely removed after deprecation. See below.
o	DeQueuer::SetWaitTime → DeQueuer::setWaitTime;
o	DeQueuer::SetCorrelation → DeQueuer::setCorrelation;
o	DeQueuer::SetCondition → DeQueuer::setCondition;

•	Message:
o	Message::SetToAgent → Message::setToAgent;
o	Message::SetToAgentList → Message::setToAgentList;
o	Message::SetFromAgent → Message::setFromAgent;
o	Message::SetCorrelation → Message::setCorrelation;
o	Message::SetPriority → Message::setPriority;
o	Message::SetDelay → Message::setDelay;
o	Message::SetExpiration → Message::setExpiration;
o	Message::SetExceptionQueue → Message::setExceptionQueue;

•	Queue options:
o	Note: while the QFC API does expose these settings, there is currently no QFC implementation that provides them. You should remove them from your code.
o	Queue::SetOptionsMultiConsumer → Queue::OP_MULTI_CONSUMER;
o	Queue::SetOptionsDefault → Queue::OP_DEFAULT;
o	Queue::SetOptions → Queue::setOptions;
•	Queue open/close:
o	Note: this should be replaced by direct calls to Queue::open() or Queue::close(). Contact us if you need to update such code.
o	Queue::SetOpenNone → Queue::OP_NONE;
o	Queue::SetOpenQueue → Queue::OP_QUEUE;
o	Queue::SetOpenDeQueue → Queue::OP_DE_QUEUE;
o	Queue::SetOpenBoth → Queue::OP_BOTH;
o	Queue::SetOpenMode → No equivalent.
•	Queue miscellaneous:
o	Note: while the QFC API does expose these functions, there is currently no QFC implementation that provides them. You should remove them from your code.
o	Queue::SetRetentionTime → Queue::setRetentionTime;
o	Queue::SetMaximumRetries → Queue::setMaximumRetries;
o	Queue::SetRetryDelay → Queue::setRetryDelay;
o	Queue::SetComment → Queue::setComment;

•	Queuer visibility:
o	Queuer::SetVisibilityImmediate → Queuer::VS_IMMEDIATE;
o	Queuer::SetVisibilityOnCommit → Queuer::VS_ON_COMMIT;
o	Queuer::SetVisibility → Queuer::setVisibility;
Please replace them with the corresponding and proper call to the setter. E.g.:
Removal of setters API
// Instead of doing this...
qfc::lqs::Queuer queuer(qfc::lqs::Queuer::SetVisibilityOnCommit); // Does not compile

// Do that:
qfc::lqs::Queuer queuer; // Default constructor
queuer.setVisibility(qfc::lqs::Queuer::VS_ON_COMMIT); // Ok, setting the visibility afterwards

// Real code excerpt showing why this API was dangerous:
qfc::lqs::DeQueuer deq;
deq.SetMode(qfc::lqs::DeQueuer::MD_REMOVE); // Woops, calling SetMode instead of setMode
// This compiles with no warning, but has no effect at all
Miscellaneous
•	The qfc::List::rotate has been renamed to qfc::List::moveToBack. Its original name came from its usage of std::rotate, but it caused confusion.
•	DeQueuer::getToAgent/setToAgent has been removed. It was already deprecated on pack 19, as it was not implemented anyway. You can safely remove calls to such method.
•	qfc::Queue::close() and qfc::Queue::disable() used to take an optional boolean wait parameter. It was never implemented, so it was removed. You can safely remove this parameter.
QueuingServer (aka LQS or GQS)
The feature QS_USE_QS_TYPE_GIVEN_BY_OTF is now always toggled on, which means that QueuingServer no longer relies on its connector name to guess whether it should run in GQS or LQS mode. You shouldn't need to do anything, but contact us if your LQS suddenly starts in GQS mode or vice-versa.
mdw::QueuingServer::qs_probe no longer has public includes. As far as we can tell no one ever used them.
The following headers have been removed from public API:
•	com/basic/QFGroupedTraces.h
•	com/basic/QFMyTrace.h
•	com/basic/QFGuard.h
You shouldn't need them, so simply stop #include'ing them. Please contact us if turns out you do need them.
TBF::api
Three methods have been removed:
•	tbf::TransactionBilling::SetUseIDs
Can be replaced by a call to tbf::TransactionBilling::SetFormattingPolicy (kPolicy_IdInCarf for true, kPolicy_NoFormatting for false).
•	tbf::TransactionBilling::SetAggregationBufferSize
Can be simply removed.
•	tbf::TransactionBilling::SetCheckpointRate
Can be simply removed.
Tracer
Removed files deprecated a few years ago:
•	TRC_Exception.h → tracer/Exception.h
•	TRC_Trace.h → tracer/Trace.h
UP_SQL
•	For Oracle databases, the OCI session pool (built-in pool on Oracle client) is now the default connection pooling mechanism to connect to an Oracle database.
Note that the OCI session pool is available since MW Pack R15 with Oracle client 18c through the OVA "useOCIPool" set to "Y" (needs a recycle as well when changed), and it is actually recommended to use it.
•	UP_SQLTrafficWriter is removed, this was meant to dump SQL queries to a file, never used.
•	UP_SQLInputRow and UP_SQLOutputRow can't be reused anymore in many queries unless they are cleared before reused
UP_SQLInputRow aInRow;
UP_SQLOutpputRow aOutRow;
aInRow << ... << endr;
aOutRow << ... << endr;
aQuery.execute(aInRow, aOutRow);    --> 1st time OK

aInRow << ... << endr;
aOutRow << ... << endr;
aQuery.execute(aInRow, aOutRow);    --> 2nd time KO (index out of range)

aInRow.Clear();
aOutRow.Clear();
aInRow << ... << endr;
aOutRow << ... << endr;
aQuery.execute(aInRow, aOutRow);    -->  OK
•	TAF is removed:
It is not possible anymore to use the following configuration items when creating a database connection :
o	FAILOVER_RETRIES_TYPE
o	FAILOVER_INFINITE_RETRIES_TYPE
o	FAILOVER_DELAY_TYPE
o	FAILOVER_CALLBACK_TYPE
         It also not possible anymore to define a TAF callback because of the removal of UP_SQLDBConnectionConfigurationItem operator()(void (*callback)()) const;
You have to use the tag "ora" in your CMK configurations/deployment.xml everywhere where you used to use "ora10", "ora11", "ora18" or "ora19" before. In the MWPack, the tag "ora19" will eventually be deleted, you have to use only "ora" with recent pack 21. Similarly, mdw::SQL::ora19 will eventually be deleted, so stop using it, use only mdw::SQL::ora.
Web::HtmlKit
	Reminder that the FusionChart/FusionMap Libraries are going to be removed of every MDW major release including this one. A migration is needed on application side to another library (of their choice).
mdw::CppUnit
mdw::CppUnit was an old version of the opensource component CppUnit copy/paste into a BMS component.
It is deprecated since branch 18: Removed from Pack 23. Please use osp::CppUnit instead which is more recent version.
Code changes:
•	Using CPPUNIT_NS::Message in CPPUNIT_ASSERT_MESSAGE will cause a compilation error, and it will be fixed by directly inlining the string in the CPPUNIT_ASSERT_MESSAGE macro or by using a std::string instead of CPPUNIT_NS::Message. See the different diff here:
o	https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/MWP/repos/sic/commits/ac099be419915c3cd891d76bd23ec12da4c5afa4#component/test/src/Test_CC.cpp
o	https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/DATREP/repos/gmc/pull-requests/663/diff#Components/CacheRelease/test/cppUnit/src/cfs/test/cppUnit/TcuCacheReleasesV12.cpp
•	Tests checking thrown exception, in the very special case where std::exception is expected, people will have to specify another exception type as osp::CppUnit already catches std::exception:
o	https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/DSM/repos/queuingserver/commits/d9714727b7ab8522e6bfa42c6b221f3e564fed21#qs/test/qsTest/src/qstest/unittest/tests/StatisticsTest.cpp

mdw::Web::Framework
You shall no longer include any grammar header like "webFramework/HtmlConversation_Grammar.h" or "webFramework/HtmlConversationGrammar_sax.h" as these are exposing implementation details of the internal grammar used by the WebFramework which can change at any time. These headers were made fully private in pack 23. Normally you need these grammar definition for one single thing: OTF grammar registration. To cope with that, a new static method void WebFramework::Grammar::RegisterGrammars(otf::RegistrationManager& ioRegistrationManager) was introduced.

So instead of a code like:
#include "webFramework/HtmlConversation_Grammar.h"

aRegistrationManager.registerEdifactGrammar(WebFramework::HtmlConversation_Grammar::getInstance());
People shall instead do:
#include "webFramework/Grammar.h"

WebFramework::Grammar::RegisterGrammars(aRegistrationManager);


Using xlog_dcx in non-regression script
The file xlog_dcx.py (imported in python via "import xlog_dcx" has been packaged in a stable path which works accross all envrionment. So stop copying this file in your own git repository or stop try to reach the NAS version found in mdw::Xlog::Instrumentation, or stop trying to replicate mdw::Xlog::Instrumentation and find the file in the BMS replication folder. This file is now available in the path /opt/1A/xlog-utils/latest. This small python snippet should allow you to correctly import it in your python scripts:

import sys
sys.path.append("/opt/1A/xlog-utils/latest")
import xlog_dcx

Note that the version found in mdw::Xlog::Instrumentation emits a warning in packs <= 21 and will be removed from pack 23.

________________________________________

Generated edifact grammar compilation issues
Proceeding with mdw::Pack migration from 18-0-0-357 to its counterpart in major 21 21-0-0-31, I am facing difficult compilation issues apparently due to a poisoned _AMD_TPF_ macro that is used within generated grammar code.
The grammar generation is based on two tools (versions provided here are the latest available at the time of writing and the ones in use) :
DSC_GRAMGEN_VERSION=4-1-2-0
ANGEL_VERSION=3.0.3
Ultimately, the full compilation logs visible : compilation_logs.out and the current state of changes in the codebase : https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/NOX/repos/nox/pull-requests/91/overview
→ SOLVED by migrating the grammar generation to up-to-date tooling : https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/MWP/repos/grammargenerator/browse
Sonar scanning problems
JPGL-2062 - Getting issue details... STATUS
	the build-wrapper used behind the scenes in walle workflow is outdated and must be updated on the NAS
	Sonar only partially supports C++20 scanning as per https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/sonar/documentation/analysis/languages/cfamily/
	This requires to inject the following parameter in the sonar scannning tool call :
sonar.cfamily.cpp20=true
	Conclusion on this item : prefer to use sonar-staging instance while waiting for sonar team to bump the PRD sonar instance to have compatibility with C++20. Make sure that access control is working fine there (IZU user must have logged to the platform once as pre-requisite, and if you need admin privileges, you will need to request them for the sonar instance). Other than that : https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/sonarqube-staging/dashboard?id=NOX_KEY%3Anox&pullRequest=91

________________________________________

OTF 21 Migration guide
From the client point of view, OTF 21 will be pretty similar to branch 19.
C++21 toolchain v21
OTF 21 supports only toolchain v21 with -std=gnu++20.  There is a separate migration guide for toolchain v21, see From toolchain v19 (GCC 9.x/-std=gnu++17) to toolchain v21 (GCC 11.x/-std=gnu++20).
Queuing server connection in a standalone binary (ie not an OTF backend)
Apparently there used to be in packs < 18 some few use cases of binaries which were not OTF backends but would still connect to a queuing server (aka LQS/GQS) in order to achieve some queuing management (for example, empty all queues, or put some elements in some queues). We expect this to be ONLY valid for local regression purpose, NOT for real production. The people having such case will for now need to rely on the special component mdw::OTF::internal::QueuingServerStandaloneImplementation. As the name reads, this component is in theory an internal component, and the only real supported users of this component is as of February 2021 the AML application and the team maintaining mdw::QueuingServer. We will only support these teams, for others use it at your own risk. Note that it will break from time to time, as there is absolutely no API/ABI compatibility guarantee on this component. You shall never use this component's API yourself, but only let mdw::QueuingServer use it (as the code in mdw::QueuingServer will evolve in the future, adapting to API changes in mdw::OTF::internal::QueuingServerStandaloneImplementation).
As of February 2021, the only way to use mdw::OTF::internal::QueuingServerStandaloneImplementation is by using aggregation (mode="aggregated in the BMS <dependency> tag). This may as well evolve in the future.
Note that we may delete old releases (ie more than 6 months old releases) of this component at any time, to make some space in our NAS/Artifactory delivery folder. So you may need to regularly update your pack to the latest minor version to avoid compilation/BMS issues with this component every 6 months.
You got the point: please don't use this component if you can avoid using it ! One possibility to avoid using it is to create an actual OTF batch doing the same thing as your standalone binary.
DU compatibility
Frontend / Backend
The OTF frontend 21 will only work correctly with the followings OTF backend versions:
•	It is NOT possible to use any backend 14.
•	OTF backend >= 15-0-0-141 (MWPack 15 was deprecated in 2020)
•	OTF backend >= 16-0-0-155 (MWPack 16 was deprecated in 2021)
•	OTF backend >= 18-0-0-100
•	OTF backend >= 19-0-0-59
•	Any OTF backend >= 21
HACS / Context server
The HACS 21 will only work correctly with the following context servers:
•	Context server >= 18-0-0-106
•	Context server >= 19-0-0-66
•	Any context server >= 21
Reminder: the CS/HACS version is determined by the OTF ULAM component (same as frontend version).
OTF variable changes
The default value of the following OTF variables have changed. In most cases, you can already test that this will not affect you without migrating to this pack by overriding the default value in older packs.
•	OTF_ENABLE_DISTRIBUTED_CONTEXT_FOR_BATCH_AND_DAEMON is no longer needed. Batch and Daemon WILL generate DCX by default. The feature can be disabled setting OTF_ENABLE_DISTRIBUTED_CONTEXT_FOR_BATCH_AND_DAEMON to 'no'. This will not be possible in pack 23
The following OTF variables have been removed, so please stop setting them (reviewing all your OTF variables during a major MWPack migration is always a good idea):
•	Variable ApplicationName was removed. Please use ApplicationServerName instead, they return the same value (the name of the application server). This change can be done in any OTF version (mdw branches 18, 16, 15, 14 and before). Should you want to get the name of the application, you can get it from OTF variable APPLICATION.
•	OTF_ATTACH_CONTEXT has been removed. Applicative contexts are now by default always attached to the server conversation (if any).
•	OTF_PEAK_TOKEN_STD_MERGE has been removed. Peak tokens in the DCX now follow a standard merge strategy.
•	OTF_HANDLE_HACS_CLIENT_CONV_KEEPALIVE_ON_BE has been removed. ITO on client conversations from HACS (to generate keep-alives) are now always handled on backend side just as if the ITO had happened on the context server.
•	OTF_DAEMON_RESET_DCX_EACH_RUN has been removed. The consequence is that both GCX and DCX will be reset before each loop run in daemons (this was already the case for all backends >= 15 delivered after 04 Aug 2021 ). The historical behavior before this date was to NOT reset it.

Transaction coordinator in multiple shot has been removed
After being deprecated since pack 15, the multiple shot mode of transaction coordinator calls has been removed on backend side. You shall use instead single shot mode, which means that the OTF frontend will wait that all replies have come (or that it timed out) before sending all replies all at once, which you shall process in the "coordinatedReplies" callback. The frontend will no longer execute the reply service on individual replies as they arrive.
Normally very few people use multiple shot nowadays, and it's been deprecated since quite some time. If really you have a use case where single shot is worse for you than multiple shot, then contact the OTF team to initiate a discussion.
Note that frontend 21 remains capable of handling multiple shot calls made by older backends which still have this capability, we will keep this frontend support until all backend supporting multiple shot goes out of support scope.
In practice in your code, look for the strings kTransaction_MultipleShot and kTransaction_MultipleShot_Deprecated and make sure you no longer use it anymore. Note that moving from single shot to multiple shot may imply other code change on your side as the individual reply callback is no longer called.
Security tokens/security keys version 2 has been removed
After being deprecated since pack 15, and in practice used by absolutely no one in any ADP MAG (as the security key table has been empty for years), the security tokens version 2 support has been entirely removed, starting from pack 15 already. It shall not affect any real production flow. You just may have deprecation warning/compilation error if you do use explicitly kSecTokenVersion_V2 in your code: you shall no longer use this value, make as if only kSecTokenVersion_V1 exists and is valid.
Handling of otf::CrypticContext
Object otf::CrypticContext returned by otf::InboundCrypticMessage::getCrypticContext is now a const reference. This means that it is read-only.
To build an otf::Payload to reply, you want to take the cryptic context from otf::TransactionContext: getResources().getTransactionContext().getCrypticContext();
API changes
•	Method otf::ServiceObject::handleSignOut no longer takes a boolean as third argument.
•	REST: headers are now a multimap instead of a map. Old API was flagged as deprecated since mdw 15. In particular otf::RESTInboundRequest::hasHeader has been replaced by otf::RESTInboundRequest::countHeaders and otf::RESTInboundRequest::getHeaders by otf::RESTInboundRequest::getHeaderMap
•	namespace for xlog interface is now otf::xlog (instead of unittest::xlog)
•	method otf::ServiceObject::handleEndOfSleep is now virtual
•	otf:: Payload constructors without otf::SensitiveDataFormat have been removed
•	otf::ClientSessionConfiguration::setTtl and otf::ClientSessionConfiguration::getTtl have been removed (getRTO, setRTO should be used instead)
•	otf:: Payload constructors for cryptics now take an std::shared_ptr<const otf::CrypticContext> instead of a pointer. If you were taking a CrypticContext from otf::InboundMessage to pass it to otf:Payload, take it from otf::TransactionContext instead (getResources().getTransactionContext().getCrypticContext()).
•	otf::InboundCrypticMessage::getCrypticContext is now only a const method. Please contact OTF if you think you need this method in write mode
•	otf::TransactionContext::getCrypticContext and otf::TransactionContext::getClientCrypticContext now return an std::shared_ptr<const otf::CrypticContext> instead of a raw pointer.
•	otf::TransactionContext::setCrypticContext has been removed, please contact OTF if you think you need this method
•	otf::TransactionContext::setClientCrypticContext now takes an std::shared_ptr<const otf::CrypticContext> in input
•	otf::TransactionContext::getCrypticContextServer now returns a const reference. otf::TransactionContext::setCrypticContextServer has been removed.
•	The default constructor otf::Payload::Payload() was deprecated since pack 15 and removed in pack 21. The same goes for the method otf::Payload::unserialize(toolbox::Unmarshaller&). Normally both symbols were used in conjunction to create a payload from a marshalled blob. Instead you shall call directly the new explicit construtor otf::Payload::Payload(toolbox::Unmarshaller&) which does the same thing as the previous default constructor + unserialize. This change can already be implemented in recent OTF starting from pack 15.
•	otf::MessageOptions::setForceUppercase and otf::MessageOptions::getForceUppercase have been removed, please use otf::MessageOptions::setUppercaseConversion and otf::MessageOptions::getUppercaseConversion instead (available since mdw 15).
•	The historical API for Protobuf payload management has been moved into the mdw::OTF BMS library and the otf:: namespace. The old name are kept till pack 23, but deprecated. Normally the compiler should tell you when you use a deprecated name (if you don't disable them explicitly), so please read and fix all warnings before upgrading to a bigger major pack. As a consequence you should:
o	Remove any BMS dependency to mdw::OTF::ProtobufFramework::Protobuf in favor of mdw::OTF which normally you already depend on.
o	Replace all C++ #include statement from "otf/protobuf/*.h" to "otf/*.h" (which can easily be modified via a sed replacement).
o	Replace all C++ namespace otf::protobuf:: usage by otf:: (which can easily be modified via a sed replacement).
•	The historical API of otf::HTTPHeaderValue has been modified (ie deprecated) in 2024. Historically this class used to provide two sets of getters and setters for "value" and "options". What was an "options" of a header ? Well we considered that all the headers used to follow the "Content-Type" header syntax, where anything that follows the semi-colon is a map of options. Our assumption was wrong, except "Content-Type", pretty much no HTTP header does use this syntax, and people who used "getValue" got only the truncated "main value" of the headers (ie everything before the semicolon). So, these accessors were deprecated, and instead we have introduced a set of "raw value" accessors (ie getRawValue/setRawValue), and two APIs allowing to parse/encode the specific "Content-Type" header: parseMainValueAndOptions & setMainValueAndOptions. Follow the detailed deprecation warning you get since pack 15 starting from september 2024 to correctly migrate these. The deprecated APIs will be removed in OTF 25.

________________________________________

kitPack migration: from 18 to 23
This page gives details on the changes required to go from latest kitPack 18-x-x-x to the latest kitPack 23-x-x-x.
•	Context
•	API changes kitPack 18->23
o	kitCommon: deprecated API removed
o	kitField: validate() API changed
o	kitHac: no API change
o	kitSimpleType: few API changed
o	kitCodeset: no API change
o	kitCodegen: no API change
o	kitPersistence: no API change in itself *but* changes in connection management in UP_SQL will make you alter your code
o	kitMultiling: no API change *but* read about transactions
o	kitBoostextra: fully decommissioned - not available anymore!
o	kitBcf: no API change
o	kitCppunit: fully decommissioned - not available anymore!
o	kitTimestat: no API change
o	kitParallel: no API change
o	kitNoSQLClient: possibly API change IF you didn't use the latest scope/collection API
o	kitBlob (and pyKitBlob incidentally): no API change
o	kitXdsc: no API change
o	kitOaf (not versioned anymore by kitPack)
o	kitUtils (not versioned anymore by kitPack)
•	Migration tips & tricks
o	General
o	BMS
o	OSP::ProtoBuf
o	ahpmw::kitField
•	GOTCHA: XDSC API changes (for XML messages) and more generally, comments on smart pointers & kitFactory
•	GOTCHA: unit tests with RFD and Oracle DB connections
•	GOTCHA: Oracle & UPSQL & UP_SQLInputRow and UP_SQLOutputRow
(GOTCHA’s are a list of issues not directly related to kitPack or hotel mdw but more for pitfalls, recurring questions we have received and we thing they can help ease the migration.)
Context
MWPack migrations guides are incremental so you may have to read all of these.
•	18 to 19 on Migration Guide (MWPack 19) and then
•	19 to 21 on Migration Guide (MWPack 21) and then
•	Migration Guide (MWPack 23)
We did the same but eventually MWPack19 went off and so was kitPack19 so we just have 2 guides.
•	kitPack migration: from 18 to 21
•	kitPack migration: from 21 to 23
But because we’re nice people, we just merged these 2 in the section below to addresse major changes when going kitPack 18->23.
Note that for specific OSP or MWP API changes though, you will have to check one of the 3 official guidelines above (so we recommend you skim over them in order to have an idea of what may impact you).
For us, the most significant are probably related to Oracle connection management - we tackle this in kitPersistence but for more specific case you may need to dig in the OSP/MWP guides.
API changes kitPack 18->23
kitCommon: deprecated API removed
A couple things that used to generate deprecation build warnings have been removed. Please fix your code and as usual: never ignore build and compilation warnings!
Now they may have been deprecated in MWP21 but since you skipped it, that may come as a shock but well - it’s not our decision to make you skip MWP21.
Recommendation for new projects: OK to use.
Rationale: actively maintained.
kitField: validate() API changed
The validate()  method signature changed: it used to be something like const T& validate(const T&) override but that not consistent and it mixed overriding with shadowing, which is basically not a good design.
Now it should be: void validate()override; everywhere so you get to update your code.
If you have fields of your own, please review and fix your validate()  method accordingly. Anyway, it's not like you will have an option as compilation will break.
Unless you do weird things, the change should be trivial: every place where you return'd something you just return and you check the value already set (this->_value instead of the parameter received).
•	# kitFld and derivated classes
•	Mass blunt replacements - use at your own risk - get a snapshot commit before & don't come crying because they ate your changes... Simpler is backup, apply, and look if the outcome looks ok or not. Rollback and fix otherwise.
•
•	sed -i -e 's/virtual const std::string& validate(const std::string .*\([;{]\)/void validate() override\1/g' **/*/Fld*hpp
•
•	sed -i -e 's/^const std::string& \(Fld.*\)::validate(const std::string& iValue) {/void \1::validate() override {/g' **/*/Fld*cpp
•
•	sed -i -e 's/virtual int32_t validate(int32.*\([;{]\)/void validate() override \1/g' **/*/Fld*hpp
•
•
•
See https://amadeus.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/AHPINT/pages/edit-v2/1877147976#[inlineExtension]Migration-tips-%26-tricks
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID.
Rationale: no significant problem but a few concerns with the design (like delayed exceptions: you can store garbage but it will thrown when you try to access it). It’s been used for years so difficult to get rid of it now…
kitHac: no API change
Same old odd API.
Recommendation for new projects: if your project is Hotel IT or in LinkHotel you MUST use it : plain GAC doesn't enforce the Hotel IT Security Model.
Rationale: no known problem but performance issue in some cases due to initial design flaws (and it cannot be fixed now easily)
kitSimpleType: few API changed
From https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHPF/repos/obe-mdw-kit-simpletype/browse/README.md?at=refs%2Fheads%2Frelease%2F21.0.0 (changes happened during the 19.x.x.x times)
•	removed all kit::Factory useless create since the constructors are public. If you can't get rid of your legacy constructors, use KIT::Factory<StyType>::instance->create(your constructor parameters)
•	Altered StyPeriod::toDOWPatternPeriods() signature: just returns a plain vector instead of a vector of KIT::factory allocated pointers
•	Multiple cleanups - slightly more const correct but not ideal due to some sloppy caching
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID.
Rationale: no significant known problem but serious design flaws that can't really be fixed now that it's been used a lot for years - same issues as for kitField.
kitCodeset: no API change
Same old API.
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID. Not supported for Hotel IT. Only makes sense for Hotel Distribution.
Rationale: we (PMT) only package and fix warnings and have zero knowledge on what it should be doing (= "the code is the specification").
IMPORTANT: if you do use the component, be aware there is ZERO testing
kitCodegen: no API change
The code generated may have been slightly been updated for newer C++ but that should be seamless.
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID
Rationale: it only makes sense when used with kitPersistence, and that one should be avoided too (overengineered and subtle error cases).
kitPersistence: no API change in itself *but* changes in connection management in UP_SQL will make you alter your code
Change #1: kitPersistence relies on the availability of a default connection.
It's not the preferred mode anymore for UPSQL now, but kitPersistence cannot support multiple connections cleanly, without a major redesign.
This is the case for OHF (which will manage the change so it will be seamless for you), for instance but it is not the case in unit tests.

In practice, you will have to alter your code to set up your default connection yourself. But despair not, for we've been here before you, so you can look at a few examples:
•	unittest's main.cpp: https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHPF/repos/obe-mdw-kit-persistence/browse/test/main.cpp?at=refs%2Fheads%2Frelease%2F19.0.1#49-50
•	and https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHPF/repos/obe-mdw-kit-persistence/browse/test/ConnectionPoolRaiiHelper.hpp?at=release/19.0.1 (you should be able to steal this code mostly as is)
The reference documentation is there: https://amadeus.atlassian.net/wiki/display/UPSQL/15.+Connection+oriented+APIs
Change #2: KIT::PstBOFactory → KIT::Factory
kitPersistence used to have its own memory factories KIT:PstBOFactory (BO for Business Object even if Factory stinks  ) which were indeed the same as KIT::Factory. So we just used the latter there as well.
Just run the search and replace sed 1-liner below and that should be it
sed -i -e 's/\<PstBOFactory\>/Factory/g' **/*.?pp
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID using this and try to go for direct UP_SQL. The code generated is usually 1/ smaller and 2/ more readable.
Rationale: overengineered design that hides what really happens under useless layers of abstraction that obfuscate the code in crazy convoluted ways. So were the late 2000s :-)
kitMultiling: no API change *but* read about transactions
kitMultiling: we had odd things with transactions.
Note: there was no testing prior to MWP19 so there may have similar things, but we just didn't know then...
If you don't activate transaction, you may get odd errors in unit tests: from https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHPF/repos/obe-mdw-kit-multiling/pull-requests/75/overview
This being said, trx should probably have been used ***way before*** as, since the beginning: like you retrieveLock(select ... for update) but what does it mean if there is no trx around? Lock and immediately unlock? Makes little sense.

This is odd because we already are in Ora19 from mwpack19 so there must be something that changed between clients or session settings...
We also noticed some issues with cursor leaks in kitPst 21 with earlier mwpack 21 versions and these issues got solved automagically with a newer mwpack21.

(There are more #if NEED_DB_TRANSACTION than in this diff as I started adding them in pack 18 to confirm that something changed.)
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID.
Rationale: knowledge and expertise available are limited. The design and API are impractical. You will most likely be on your own to investigate issues.
kitBoostextra: fully decommissioned - not available anymore!
The last version was in kitpack19. kitpack18 has been writing obnoxious compilation warning for years now.
You had been warned and should already have migrated to std::regex or boost::regex for instance.
kitBcf: no API change
No significant API change.
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID.
Rationale: very limited expertise and knowledge - you will mostly be on your own.
kitCppunit: fully decommissioned - not available anymore!
The last version was in kitpack19. kitpack18 has been writing obnoxious compilation warning for years now.
You had been warned and should already have migrated to Google Test (way better and not that complicated - we did it for all mdw and several applicative components and it’s ).
You can try plain CppUnit but but Google Test is better in our opinion.
kitTimestat: no API change
Recommendation for new projects: OK to use.
Rationale: actively maintained.
kitParallel: no API change
Recommendation for new projects: OK to use.
Rationale: actively maintained.
kitNoSQLClient: possibly API change IF you didn't use the latest scope/collection API
If you are on the old API (without Scope/Client), you must migrate to the Scope/Client API. You can already do that in the latest kitPack18. Check the README.md for migration guidelines.
If you are on the latest API (the one with Scope/Client support), the API hasn't changed.
Tips: These few sed 1-liners may help you update some code for kvclient / NoSQLClient:
# kitNosqlclient & KVClient

sed -i -e 's/\<KIT::MultiGetKeyValue\>/KIT::nosql::Value/g' **/*.?pp
sed -i -e 's,<kvclient/KVClient.hpp>,<kvclient/Client.hpp>,g' **/*.?pp
sed -i -e 's,\<kvclient::KVClient\>,kvclient::Client,g' **/*.?pp
sed -i -e 's,\<kvclient/KVException.hpp\>,kvclient/Exception.hpp,g' **/*.?pp
Recommendation for new projects:
•	OK to use (but mostly for IT and only supports NoSQL queries : it will NOT support N1QL)
•	for Hotel Distribution, you should use mdw::KVclient directly
•	if you need to run N1QL queries, you must use mdw::KVclient as well
Rationale: actively maintained (but mostly for Hotel IT shopping 's nosql) - there will be no addition to support N1QL queries as it's been designed to fit Hotel IT shopping needs before kvclient was an option.
kitBlob (and pyKitBlob incidentally): no API change
No API change.
Recommendation for new projects: OK to use.
Rationale: actively maintained.
kitXdsc: no API change
No API change.
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID and try to use mdw::XDSC directly instead to generate your grammars.
Rationale: kitXdsc is sort of a hack over mdw::XDSC.
kitOaf (not versioned anymore by kitPack)
kitOaf received multiple changes as it's a layer on top of OHF which is a layer on top of OTF.
Check https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHPF/repos/obe-mdw-kit-oaf/browse/README.md.
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID.
•	Hotel IT: forbidden if you use it, get rid of it because you’re doing it wrong.
•	Hotel Distribution: not supported and consider finding a better option migrate away.
Rationale:
•	limited clarity on what is expected (same issue as for PST and BCF = complex framework from the late 2000s so problems that are considered in the 2020s as design flaws).
•	Cannot easily follow the changes done on OTF & limited support for REST.
•	And it's not tested so you will mostly have to lead your own investigations.
Since it's not part of kitPack, we have a bit more option to do non binary compatible releases, BUT you will have to synchronize with all your library mdw providers which may be OAF users.
kitUtils (not versioned anymore by kitPack)
Check https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHPF/repos/obe-mdw-kit-utils/browse/README.md for further details, pending more update here.
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID.
•	Hotel IT: forbidden if you use it, get rid of it because you’re doing it wrong.
•	Hotel Distribution: not supported and consider finding a better option migrate away.
Rationale: depends on OAF so the same rationale applies.
Migration tips & tricks
Test/blitz port PR's to assess what needs to be done - done as is in the hope the may be useful and test the kitPack / symbol exports:
•	DEC2023: https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHFR/repos/obe-mdw-kit-hsp/pull-requests/293/overview : mdw HSP - no problem (~2h) - good : builds with bms
•	JUL2023: https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHCI/repos/obe-mdw-hcf/pull-requests/1516/overview : many problems due to tech debt - kitCppUnit - kitFld - higher C++ templates & protobuf code generated API change with variadic templates (maybe 1d - but much more needed due to techdebt and lack of unitesting...) - good : builds with bms
•	JUL2023: https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHCI/repos/obe-mdw-fcar/pull-requests/110/overview : mdw - no major problem (~2h) - good : builds with bms
The tips below may be useful and come from our experience creating kitpack23 itself or integrating it in early candidates (other applicative middleware or applications).
General
•	AmdInc.h has to be removed. This should have been done when you migrated to 18 by the eway
sed -i -e '/^ *#include  *<AmdInc.h>/d' **/*.cpp **/*.hpp **/*.h
•	Get rid of std::unary_function and std::binary_function: most of the times, you can just remove them and don't need replacing them. That comes from newer C++.
BMS
•	bmsrc (switch to the non NAS path to be more future proof!)
•	.bms/bmsrc
•	-include_conf = /projects/comdelde/configuration/18.0.0/bms/config/bmsrc/bmsrc.global
+include_conf = /opt/1A/mdw-configuration/23.0.0/bms/config/bmsrc/bmsrc.global
•	**/Forest.xml & **/Description.xml
•	# This is never up to date... so just remove them
•	sed -i 's,<contactPoint>.*</contactPoint>,<contactPoint/>,g'  **/Forest.xml **/Description.xml
•
•	# These middleware are most of the times useless for regular applications and s: just remove these before running a bms deps -kb --repair
•	sed -i '/<dependency name="mdw::ACF"/d' **/Forest.xml **/Description.xml
•	sed -i '/<dependency name="osp::Boost::system"/d' **/Forest.xml **/Description.xml
•	sed -i '/<dependency name="osp::JsonSpirit"/d' **/Forest.xml **/Description.xml
sed -i '/<dependency name="osp::ICU"/d' **/Forest.xml **/Description.xml
OSP::ProtoBuf
•	Protobuf generator to patch in Description.xml's
•	Change (C++ bindings generator)
•	<generator name="osp::ProtoBuf" configfile="protoconf/proto.cfg" options="--proto_path=protosrc --cpp_out=src/genprotobuf -I src/genprotobuf protosrc/*.proto" depends="protosrc"/>
•	to:
•	<generator name="osp::ProtoBuf::protoc" configfile="protoconf/proto.cfg" options=" --proto_path=protosrc --cpp_out="dllexport_decl='__attribute__((visibility(&quot;default&quot;)))':src/genprotobuf" -I src/genprotobuf protosrc/*.proto" depends="protosrc"/>
•
•	Change (Python bindings generator)
•	<generator name="osp::ProtoBuf" configfile="protoconf/protopy.cfg" options="--proto_path=protosrc --python_out=src/genpyprotobuf -I src/genpyprotobuf protosrc/*.proto" depends="protosrc"/>
•	to
<generator name="osp::ProtoBuf::protoc" configfile="protoconf/protopy.cfg" options=" --proto_path=protosrc --python_out=src/genpyprotobuf -I src/genpyprotobuf protosrc/*.proto" depends="protosrc"/>
ahpmw::kitField
•	Fld's validate: this is where you may spend a bit more more time:
•	Assess problems:
•
grep 'KIT::Fld' $(rgrep 'validate(' . | cut -d \: -f 1 |sort -u) | cut -d \: -f 1 | sort -u | wc -l ==> about the number of classes / validate() that  will need patching & reviewing
Then go over the files and do some change like that - if you want to know why? The API had been somewhat half-baked for years and mixing shadowing an overriding.
Basically : use setValid() and setInvalid() instead of setState().
If you need the value set, use this->_value instead of the value received in parameter.
Remove / replace the return values in the implementation of validate().


diff --git a/proxy/include/hcf/FldPropertyMigrationStatus.hpp b/proxy/include/hcf/FldPropertyMigrationStatus.hpp
index 40b94a78..c82e0e41 100644
--- a/proxy/include/hcf/FldPropertyMigrationStatus.hpp
+++ b/proxy/include/hcf/FldPropertyMigrationStatus.hpp
@@ -29,7 +29,7 @@ class FldPropertyMigrationStatus : public KIT::FldFixStringUtf8<0, 10> {
   FldPropertyMigrationStatus(const FldPropertyMigrationStatus& iValue);

  protected:
-  virtual const std::string& validate(const std::string& iValue);
+  void validate() override;
 };
 }

diff --git a/proxy/src/field/FldPropertyMigrationStatus.cpp b/proxy/src/field/FldPropertyMigrationStatus.cpp
index 00e1730d..b361dfbf 100644
--- a/proxy/src/field/FldPropertyMigrationStatus.cpp
+++ b/proxy/src/field/FldPropertyMigrationStatus.cpp
@@ -32,16 +32,15 @@ FldPropertyMigrationStatus::FldPropertyMigrationStatus(const FldPropertyMigratio
   }
 }

-const std::string& FldPropertyMigrationStatus::validate(const std::string& iValue) {
+void FldPropertyMigrationStatus::validate() {
   // Verify, that the value is part of the valid subset of values defined for brand marketing lines
   if (this->_value== FldPropertyMigrationStatusValues::DEFAULT || this->_value == FldPropertyMigrationStatusValues::ACTIVATED
       || this->_value == FldPropertyMigrationStatusValues::PARTIAL
       || this->_value == FldPropertyMigrationStatusValues::FULL) {
-    this->_state.setState(KIT::FldState::VALID);
+      setValid();
   }
   else {
-    this->_state.setState(KIT::FldState::INVALID);
+      setInvalid();
   }
-  return iValue;
 }
 }

•	C++ modernization / scriptlets
•	# C++ Get rid of your std::unary_function and std::binary_function: most of the times, you can just remove them and don't need replacing them.
•
•
•	# kitFld and derivated classes
•	Mass blunt replacements - use at your own risk - get a snapshot commit before & don't come crying because they ate your changes... Simpler is backup, apply, and look if the outcome looks ok or not. Rollback and fix otherwise.
•
•	sed -i -e 's/virtual const std::string& validate(const std::string .*\([;{]\)/void validate() override\1/g' **/*/Fld*hpp
•
•	sed -i -e 's/^const std::string& \(Fld.*\)::validate(const std::string& iValue) {/void \1::validate() override {/g' **/*/Fld*cpp
•
•	sed -i -e 's/virtual int32_t validate(int32.*\([;{]\)/void validate() override \1/g' **/*/Fld*hpp
GOTCHA: XDSC API changes (for XML messages) and more generally, comments on smart pointers & kitFactory
mdw::XDSC’s decodeBuffer() : it used to return a raw pointer allocated by new up to MWP21.
But they eventually changed their API for good and for more modern C++: decodeBuffer() which used to return a raw pointer T* allocated by new now returns a smart pointer unique_ptr<T>.
Your old code probably registered some pointer in a KIT Factory (via calls to ScheduleDeletion or XMLPtrRegister) so you cannot just use std::unique_ptr<T>'s get() as the memory is really owned by the unique_ptr<>.
To transfer the memory ownership to a KIT::Factory you must call unique_ptr’s release() - this will render the unique_ptr empty after the call - and will avoid double delete’s (the delete by the unique_ptr destructor and the one by the Factory cleaner).
The change can have side effects if not handled properly as it causes few changes in memory ownership.

KIT Factories "own" the pointers registered in it: which means it will take care of their deletion.
You can create a new pointer by calling create() and it will give you a raw pointer (non owning) that you can use, as long as the factory holds the pointer.
You can register an external pointer - but it must have been created via newwhich means: you can play with your raw pointer and it becomes non-owning because the factory will take care of the object deletion.
Usually, you will see a KIT::MemAutoCleaner object created at the beginning of your usecase: this object destructor will, upon its destruction at the end of the scope, ask *every* KIT::Factory it knows to release all the objects they have in their list (=those created natively via a Factoru and also the external ones whose ownership has beenm registered in or transferred to the Factory) - so it will delete many objects. This is what we’d call “old-school 1A C++” pattern.
With unique_ptr<T> the owner of the memory is the smart pointer object itself and upon its destruction at the end of the scope, it will call delete.
unique_ptr<T> provides 2 ways to deal with the raw pointer it wraps: get() and release()
get() gives you a non-owning raw pointer, which is valid as long as the unique_ptr<T> is alive.
release() though, will transfer ownership: it will give you an OWNING raw pointer and reset the internal pointer in the `unique_ptr` (if you get() after a release() it will be nullptr): this means you will have to take care of that pointer deletion & if you lose it, your code will leak. A way to do that, is to register in a KIT::Factory and this will make the Factory, the new owner which will take care of the object deletion (and thus extends the object life beyond the current scope).
There are a few ways to register external pointers in KIT Factories (external in the sense: created by new but not by the factory itself):
1/ You can use Factory<T>::instance()->scheduleDeletion(rawPointerOnT);
2/ For XML messages you had also the helper: XmlPtrRegisterer<XmlTargetType> that was just a shortlink on scheduleDeletion(): see example below
See example:
https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHPF/repos/obe-mdw-kit-bcf/pull-requests/178/diff#src/api/include/kit/CatalogXmlContentIO.hpp
3/ In some case,you can decide to not register in the factory but be careful as you need to make sure you don’t leak any memory - so there are a few more checks to do. Feel free to ask for a review (5min now can save hours to investigated a core dump later…)
See example:
https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHPF/repos/obe-mdw-kit-bcf/pull-requests/177/diff#src/svc/include/kit/SenEDI_OHF.hpp
GOTCHA: unit tests with RFD and Oracle DB connections

The change in connection management in UP_SQL (see above: See https://amadeus.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/AHPINT/pages/edit-v2/1877147976#kitPersistence%3A-no-API-change-in-itself-*but*-changes-in-connection-management-in-UP_SQL-will-make-you-alter-your-code) may also have some impacts in your unit tests if they also need to access RFD data.
You may have to fix your unit tests connection pool helper to include RFD initialization (see below for how to).
Symptoms:
... MyUnitTestBinary DB CRIT [0/] <UP_SQLDBConnectionPool.cpp#156 TID#673557248> Pool is not initialized
... MyUnitTestBinary MDW WARN [4/kRFDErr_FailedRequest] <UP_CRBApiTable.h#661 TID#673557248> Search failed: Origin: 8000 | SubCode: 0 | SpecificCode: 0 | Description: Pool is not initialized
If you use the basic ConnectionPoolRaiiHelper (BTB “real” link https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHCI/repos/obe-mdw-hcf/pull-requests/1616/diff#improvedPluginTest%2Ftest%2Fsrc%2FConnectionPoolRaiiHelper.hpp ) or:
// ////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
// Copyright of this program is the property of AMADEUS, without
// whose written permission reproduction in whole or in part is prohibited.
// ////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

#pragma once

#include <UP_SQLDBConnectionPool.h>
#include <UP_SQLDBConnectionType.h>
#include <RFD_ApiConnectionHandler.h>  /// <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<< new line

class ConnectionPoolRaiiHelper {
 private:
  struct InternalHelper {
    InternalHelper() {
      UP_SQLDBConnectionPool::Init();
      RFD_ApiConnectionHandler::Init(); /// <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<< new line
    }
    ~InternalHelper() {
      RFD_ApiConnectionHandler::Close();  /// <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<< new line
      UP_SQLDBConnectionPool::Close();
    }
  };

  // The order of definition matters: the cnx must be destroyed before the pool
  InternalHelper _internalHelper;
  UP_SQLActivePooledConnection _cnx;

 public:
  ConnectionPoolRaiiHelper(const std::string& iDbSchema,
                           const std::string& iDbService,
                           const std::string& iDbUser,
                           const std::string& iDbPassword)
      : _cnx(UP_SQLDBConnectionType(iDbSchema, iDbService, iDbUser, iDbPassword)) {
  }

  ~ConnectionPoolRaiiHelper() = default;
};
GOTCHA: Oracle & UPSQL & UP_SQLInputRow and UP_SQLOutputRow
If you face problems with UP_SQLInputRow or UP_SQLOutputRow, please be aware there has been a recommendation made with MWP21 migration guide that went like:
"UP_SQLInputRow and UP_SQLOutputRow can't be reused anymore in many queries unless they are cleared before reused"

________________________________________

<UP_SQLDBConnectionPool.cpp#156 TID#86399488> Pool is not initialized in UT stdout
upsql::sqlite::UP_SQLDBConnectionPool::Init();
status = RUN_ALL_TESTS();
upsql::sqlite::UP_SQLDBConnectionPool::Close();

float comparison warning as error
use disable pragmas in the minimal possible scope

________________________________________

•	KvClient mdw changes :
Another change was related to the KvClient middleware which handles Couchbase operations, there were headers renamed and classes that were previously defined and bundled together were separated to different hpp/cpp files, some methods were also removed (such as ::query() under N1QLClient). These changes however were introduced in KVClient Pack 19, given that we are skipping versions to the MDW version 23, more changes should be expected. Here are the changes related to KvClient : Migration to KvClient Pack 19
•	according this migration guide :
OTF 19 Migration guide
#include <otf/RESTServiceObject.h> changed to #include <otf/Service.h>
and otf::StandardRESTServiceObjectAllocator to be changed to otf::StandardServiceAllocator
General
•	From toolchain v18 (gnu++17) to toolchain v23 (gnu++23)
•	Iterator Inheritance Removal Issue:
The previous implementation of GenericMemberIterator inherited from std::iterator has been deprecated since C++17 and removed in C++20.
-> Removing the inheritance and doing an explicit implementation of iterator traits manually to ensure compatibility with C++23. (Reference)
•	Const-Correctness in Version Comparison Operators:
In C++17, the comparison operators (operator< and operator==) were not const-qualified, potentially modifying the Version object. In C++23, this breaks const-correctness when used with constant objects.
-> Add the const qualifier to the member function declarations for the comparison operators. This explicitly indicates that the operators will not modify the object. (Reference)
•	Header Inclusion <cstdint> in C++23:
The compiler throws a build error if <cstdint> is not explicitly included, as it defines fixed-width integer types like uint64_t.
-> Explicitly include the <cstdint> header to ensure proper definition of fixed-width integer types..
•	https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/copy_elision
std::move is removed to allow copy elision. Using std::move on a temporary prevents the compiler from applying copy elision