Migration Guide (MWPack 23)
•	Toolchain V23
•	Sonar
•	BMS Config files
•	OSPack 23 Main changes
•	Batch job helpers
•	batch_env.sh is deprecated
•	mdw::ABRClient
•	mdw::ACF
•	mdw::CFC
•	mdw::CppUnit
•	mdw::DBC
•	mdw::EDICPP
•	mdw::EZT
•	mdw::EZT::Flipflop
•	mdw::EZT::Daemon ("GMC")
•	mdw::FDSC
•	mdw::Jaffar
•	mdw::OHF
•	OTF
•	mdw::QueuingServer::*
•	mdw::QFC::*
o	Deprecated methods (removed in QFC 23)
•	mdw::RFD::*
•	mdw::TDSC
•	mdw::Toolbox
•	mdw::Tracer
•	mdw::Web::Framework
•	mdw::XLog::Instrumentation
•	mdw::Web::Framework
•	Using xlog_dcx in non-regression script
•	UPSQL
Toolchain V23
•	The C++ version used is C++23 (-std=gnu++23).
•	The toolchain name is: "x86_64-v23". The same naming convention that for toolchain v19/v21 is used, which differs from the packs <= 18. Please read the R19 migration guide for more details.
•	As for toolchain v19, SLES 11 is NOT supported. Potentially other distros will fall into the "not supported" state as well as time moves on (ie typically for RHEL 7).
•	See the toolchain migration guide here From toolchain v21 (GCC 11.x/-std=gnu++20) to toolchain v23 (GCC 13.x/-std=gnu++23)
Sonar
The default version of Sonar in Amadeus (at 23 Apr 2024 ) does not support C++ 23 yet.
A workaround is to switch to the staging version. This is achieved by adding the line below to your Jenkinsfile
env.SONAR_URL = 'https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/sonarqube-staging'
Deprecated
Previously advertised address below is deprecated
env.SONAR_URL = 'https://ci-sonar.apps.net6.paas.westeurope.rnd.az.amadeus.net/sonarqube-net6'

BMS Config files
As a reminder, since R21 our BMS config files enable by default the generation of changelogs. Cf R21 Migration guide for details.
OSPack 23 Main changes
OSPack Main Changes 23.

In particular, read the above page if you used to generate Protobuf grammars using osp::ProtoBuf, as it is now broken in pack 23 (but easily fixable).
Batch job helpers
For batch jobs please use the helpers (otf_batch_launcher.sh and batch_env.sh) delivered in MWPack. They are bundled in all packs of supported major releases delivered since 21 Jul 2020.
Please delete both scripts from your repository and update your batch wrappers:
# for otf_batch_launcher.sh
- CMD="${OBEAPP_ROOT}/cmp/shell/otf_batch_launcher.sh cmp CMP_MyBatch -t ${OBEAPP_ROOT}/com/etc/CMP_MyBatch.traceconf"
+ CMD="${OBEAPP_ROOT}/cmp/pack/MDW/bin/otf_batch_launcher.sh cmp CMP_MyBatch -t ${OBEAPP_ROOT}/com/etc/CMP_MyBatch.traceconf"

# for batch_env.sh
- . ${OBEAPP_ROOT}/cmp/shell/batch_env.sh cmp
+ . ${OBEAPP_ROOT}/cmp/pack/MDW/bin/batch_env.sh cmp
batch_env.sh is deprecated
The "bin/batch_env.sh" script, that people used to source to get the environment to be able to run C++ non-OTF batch executable is deprecated. It's wrong in general to "source" the toolchain environment in a shell and do expect that everything will work correctly: many system executable will then fail to run, because some libraries of the OSPack do conflict with some libraries of the system. So the way this script works is too error prone. Instead, you shall use a new wrapper, "bin/non_otf_batch_launcher.sh" just as you want to run your C++ non-OTF batch executable. It's a wrapper, so you shall pass to the script the actual C++ executable you wish to execute, with its arguments. See and example of diff where this change was performed here https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/DATREP/repos/jobframework/commits/b51e40a8619356adf5c6a3a1554e3488f16e101d#app_root%2Fcomponent%2Fjfk%2Fshell%2Fstart_housekeep_bin.sh

--- a/app_root/component/jfk/shell/start_housekeep_bin.sh
+++ b/app_root/component/jfk/shell/start_housekeep_bin.sh
@@ -13,8 +13,6 @@ fi
# Source the setenv of the OBE
. ${OBEAPP_ROOT}/com/etc/setenv

-. ${OBEAPP_ROOT}/jfk/pack/MDW/bin/batch_env.sh ${COMP}
-
export JOBFRAMEWORK_USE_OHF=Y
export AMDORA_XMLDBFILE=${OBEAPP_ROOT}/${COMP}/conf/databases.xml
export DATABASE_NAME=JFK
@@ -26,7 +24,7 @@ export TRACECONFIGCOMMONFILE=batch_otfjobhousekeeper.traceconf
#aBin=${OBEAPP_ROOT}/${COMP}/pack/MDW/bin/batch_otfjobhousekeeper
aBin=${OBEAPP_ROOT}/${COMP}/bin/batch_otfjobhousekeeper

-${aBin} -P $PHASE $@
-aStatus=$?
+"${OBEAPP_ROOT}/${COMP}/pack/MDW/bin/non_otf_batch_launcher.sh" "${aBin}" -P "${PHASE}" "$@"
+aStatus="$?"

echo "Status: $aStatus"
mdw::ABRClient
•	Since Pack 18 the entire public API was migrated to the scx::SecurityContext. Wherever there used to be a security object pointer parameter, it was replaced to by scx::SecurityContextPtr (a.k.a. a std::shared_ptr to a scx::SecurityContext). Note: this object can be retrieved from the OTF's SecurityManager method getSecurityContext(). Support for the legacy secobject was maintained by the renaming the updated API methods with postfix '_legacy' (e.g. setFromSecurityObject → setFromSecurityObject_legacy). Fo Pack 21, the legacy support has been removed and in consequence the _legacy methods as well, you should use the method interfaces with SecurityContext instead.
mdw::ACF
•	Reminder: no one is meant to use mdw::ACF except few middleware component. The API of ACF may evolve in at each minor or major release in unpredictable ways. The only valid users of ACF are to date: SI/OTF/Tracer, and will be the only component we will take care of when ACF will change in an incompatible way.
•	You have to remove all references to mdw::ACF in all your repositories. Please read mdw::ACF decomissioning.
mdw::CFC
•	The deprecated headers AmdDef.h and AmdInc.h have been removed. These were deprecated already in pack 19 and 21. Instead, you should include "cfc/Def.h". Note that you can already implement this change in older major packs to prepare for the pack 23 migration.
•	As a consequence of the move to "cfc/Def.h" and libstdc++ update, many files will no longer the usual "uint32_t" or "int64_t" types (basically all the integer types with a fixed bytes sizes). If you have this problem, just add "#include <cstdint>" in the includes at the beginning of your non-compiling files.
•	The macros AMD_DLLEXPORT, AMD_DLLIMPORT, and AMD_DLLLOCAL used to be defined as old-style gcc attributes (ie __attribute__((...))) while are now defined as C++11 attributes (ie [[...]]). It means that:
o	You can't use AMD_DLLEXPORT/AMD_DLLIMPORT/AMD_DLLLOCAL at the same places than before. In particular, it shall be present BEFORE keywords like "static/virtual/extern" to be valid (otherwise you will get new compilation errors).
o	You can't mix with gcc old style attributes with new style attributes, meaning that you may update your other attributes if you define any, and use both for the same declaration.
mdw::CppUnit
mdw::CppUnit was an old version of the opensource component CppUnit copy/paste into a BMS component.
It is deprecated since branch 18: Removed from Pack 23. Please use osp::CppUnit instead which is a more recent version.
Code changes:
•	Using CPPUNIT_NS::Message in CPPUNIT_ASSERT_MESSAGE will cause a compilation error, and it will be fixed by directly inlining the string in the CPPUNIT_ASSERT_MESSAGE macro or by using a std::string instead of CPPUNIT_NS::Message. See the different diff here:
o	https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/MWP/repos/sic/commits/ac099be419915c3cd891d76bd23ec12da4c5afa4#component/test/src/Test_CC.cpp
o	https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/DATREP/repos/gmc/pull-requests/663/diff#Components/CacheRelease/test/cppUnit/src/cfs/test/cppUnit/TcuCacheReleasesV12.cpp
•	Tests checking thrown exception, in the very special case where std::exception is expected, people will have to specify another exception type as osp::CppUnit already catches std::exception:
o	https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/DSM/repos/queuingserver/commits/d9714727b7ab8522e6bfa42c6b221f3e564fed21#qs/test/qsTest/src/qstest/unittest/tests/StatisticsTest.cpp
mdw::DBC
mdw::DBC is removed from Pack 23. Instead, use gtest or assert macros
Several migration path should be taken based on the scenario.
•	If you have explicitly defined the macro EIFFEL_CHECK then you should replace all the macros REQUIRE/ENSURE/CHECK/INVARIANT by some if conditions which throws an exception (it used to be a dbc::DBC_Exception, which inherits from std::logic_error, but dbc::DBC_Exception is deprecated too) and check if you catch dbx::DBC_Exception somewhere in your code and has some actual logic depending on this. Note: ETK seems to have this a lot. If you are in this ETK case, then you shall replace dbc::DBC_Exception by std::logic_error and throw such an exception each time the condition you test is not valid.
•	If you are in the case where the macro EIFFEL_CHECK was not explicitly defined by you, then it means your conditions are closer to what a simple assert(...) does except that instead of throwing, assert will abort the program (ie core dump). And in both cases, the DBC macros and assert( ) will run only in debug mode, not in release mode, so it's more some sanity check which you don't expect in production. Core dumping only in debug mode shall normally be quite acceptable. Note that, starting from pack 18 assert don't expand to anything in release mode.
Finally, if you are in the case of a unittest, instead of assert(...) which cores dump, you might want to replace this by osp::GTest macros like ASSERT_TRUE or REQUIRE_TRUE, which will check the condition both in debug and release mode.
mdw::EDICPP
Deprecated function setNoLeadingSingle0 is removed. It doesn't has any effect anymore as Edicpp always keeps at least one 0 if the encoded numerical value is 0
mdw::EZT
Macro SET_ACTIVE_CONNECTION defined in EZT_ApiCheckDatabase.h has been renamed to SET_ACTIVE_EZTAPI_CONNECTION.
mdw::EZT::Flipflop
Introduction of pImpl idiom in many classes. You may need to switch from accessing data members directly to getter/setter. Some getters/setters were renamed. Mostly in EZT_FlipReader and EZT_FlipReader::VersionedFile.
Please check relevant header files for updated interface.
mdw::EZT::Daemon ("GMC")
MongoDB (OBE only) and AppEvent based monitorings are discontinued.
mdw::FDSC
addCStringXml(const char *iData,size_t iLen) is removed
Use fdsc::Outbuffer::addCString instead, it's the very same implementation.
mdw::Jaffar
Obsolete and unmaintained dependency osp::JsonSpirit has been replaced by osp::RapidJson
Interface remains very similar but you may have to adapt your code to use RapidJson types and objects
mdw::OHF
Deprecated method ohf::ClientCallDataIn::getClient() has been removed.
Removed the "PanelMode" callbacks as OTF has removed them (was only useful with TPF, now OTF allows to enter and leave the panel mode with a new API which doesn't involve any client call, it is now done immediately)
OTF
OTF 23 Migration guide
mdw::QueuingServer::*
FYI, Deprecated constructors QFPConnection(QFPConnectionType iType, bool tryToConnect) and QFPConnection(const std::string &hostname, PortNumber_t port, QFPConnectionType iType, bool tryToConnect)have been removed.
Use QFPConnection(const std::string &hostname, PortNumber_t port, bool tryToConnect).
Those constructors are only used by mdw::QFC, no migration needed for client.
mdw::QFC::*
•	Deprecated methods (removed in QFC 23)
QFC Message:
o	void qfc::Message::setToAgentList(const AgentList & a)
	This function has never been implemented
	Commented usage in old_tests
o	void qfc::Message::getToAgentList(AgentList & a) const
	This function has never been implemented
o	void qfc::Message::setToAgent(const Agent & agent) (deprecated)
	Please queue with `qfc::Queuer::operator()(const Agent&, const Message &)` to queue by agent instead
	Usage in UQueue.cpp and tests
	requires refactoring in benchmark and unittests
________________________________________
QFC Connection:
o	void qfc::lqs::Connection::directConnectionClean()
	Marked as deprecated, but used in case RDCP is used by QFC. Removed deprecate annotation
________________________________________
QFC Dequeuer:
o	virtual void qfc::lqs:DeQueuer::setCondition(const std::string & iCondition)
	Unsupported by LQS, please remove this call
o	virtual std::string qfc::lqs:DeQueuer::getCondition() const
	Unsupported by LQS, please remove this call
mdw::RFD::*
•	Macro SET_ACTIVE_CONNECTION defined in RFD_ApiCheckDatabase.h has been renamed to SET_ACTIVE_RFDAPI_CONNECTION
•	APT Consistent Mode orginally delivered for Middleware Cache Bypass and Instantaneous Office Profile change reading for Test is discontinued. Methods of RFD_ApiConnectionHandler related to setting OTF resource and client profile were removed. Please make sure your flow copes well with replication delay of APT update via cache, or implement your own MEDRRQ service call. It should have little to no impact as we found no use of this feature in BitBucket.
mdw::TDSC
•	The deprecated toolbox::Buffer interface has been removed. Please use std::strings instead.
mdw::Toolbox

•	The class toolbox::OString has been removed, after being deprecated in previous packs. Replace this by std::string when you want to own the string, and by std::string_view when you don't own the string. Pay special attention if you serialize the toolbox::OString class as the serialization format is NOT serialized a std::string, but as a raw pointer to const char.
•	The macros _MDW_STACK_AUTO_ and _MDW_ADD_STACKFRAME_ have been definitely removed, after having been explicitly poisoned in previous packs. It expands to nothing in previous packs.
•	The macro __AMD_FUNCNAME__ has been definitely removed, after having been explicitly poisoned in previous packs. It expands to __PRETTY_FUNCTION__ in previous packs.
•	The headers mdw/Def.h and toolbox/OptionPlatform.h which doesn't define anything anymore in pack 23 have been removed.
•	The types toolbox::LockFreeQueue* and the corresponding headers toolbox/LockFreeQueue* have been removed, as apparently these are used by no one.
•	The type toolbox::AutoArrayPtr and the corresponding header toolbox/AutoArrayPtr.h has been removed, as apparently this is used by no one, and it's nothing more than a std::unique_ptr with an array type.
•	The type toolbox::Hashtable and toolbox::Hash has been removed, after having been explicitly deprecated in previous packs. Replace the hashtable by std::unordered_map and the hash function with std::hash. However be very careful with char*/const char*, the right replacement for toolbox::Hash<char*>/toolbox::Hash<const char*> is std::hash<std::string_view>, using std::hash<const char*> will yield a *DIFFERENT* behavior (entries won't be equal even if the key is equal but in a different place in memory).
•	The copy constructor of toolbox::Unmarshaller was removed (after having been deprecated since pack 15). Technically, another version taking a bool "iMustCopy" as a second parameter exists, but ideally you really should not copy the unmarshaller object. Read the deprecation message in old packs which gives you some clue on how you should adapt your code to overcome this change.
mdw::Tracer
•	The deprecated tracer::handler::Kafka::Create method has been removed.
Use the version of tracer::handler::Kafka::Create  that takes a tracer::config::KafkaSettings  object as first argument. Create this tracer::config::KafkaSettings  object and call both setBrokers(iBrokers) and setTopic(iDefaultTopic) which are the first two parameters of this deprecated function call, then pass this object as first parameter of the new version of this function.
mdw::Web::Framework
Obsolete and unmaintained dependency osp::JsonSpirit has been replaced by osp::RapidJson
Interface remains very similar but you may have to adapt your code to use RapidJson types and objects
mdw::XLog::Instrumentation
All deprecated APIs have been removed (in particular, the obsolete JsonSpirit dependency).

mdw::Web::Framework
You shall no longer include any grammar header like "webFramework/HtmlConversation_Grammar.h" or "webFramework/HtmlConversationGrammar_sax.h" as these are exposing implementation details of the internal grammar used by the WebFramework which can change at any time. These headers were made fully private in pack 23. Normally you need these grammar definition for one single thing: OTF grammar registration. To cope with that, a new static method void WebFramework::Grammar::RegisterGrammars(otf::RegistrationManager& ioRegistrationManager) was introduced.

So instead of a code like:
#include "webFramework/HtmlConversation_Grammar.h"

aRegistrationManager.registerEdifactGrammar(WebFramework::HtmlConversation_Grammar::getInstance());
People shall instead do:
#include "webFramework/Grammar.h"

WebFramework::Grammar::RegisterGrammars(aRegistrationManager);

Using xlog_dcx in non-regression script
The file xlog_dcx.py (imported in python via "import xlog_dcx" has been packaged in a stable path which works accross all envrionment and removed from mdw::Xlog::Instrumentation. So stop copying this file in your own git repository or stop try to reach the NAS version found in mdw::Xlog::Instrumentation, or stop trying to replicate mdw::Xlog::Instrumentation and find the file in the BMS replication folder. This file is now available in the path /opt/1A/xlog-utils/latest. This small python snippet should allow you to correctly import it in your python scripts:
import sys
sys.path.append("/opt/1A/xlog-utils/latest")
import xlog_dcx
UPSQL
You have to use the tag "ora" in your CMK configurations/deployment.xml everywhere where you used to use "ora10", "ora11", "ora18" or "ora19" before. You have to use only "ora" with recent pack 23 as the tag "ora19" has been deleted. Similarly, mdw::SQL::ora19 was deleted, so stop using it, use only mdw::SQL::ora. This is implementable in all previous major packs already, when using recent versions.

________________________________________

Generated protobuf with openapigenerator issue
 For the option --proto_path, before the command should be :
           --proto_path=$(bms deps -w 'osp::ProtoBuf' | grep -A1 'is locally delivered at:' | sed -n 2p)/include
In Mdw pack 23 the command is:
           --proto_path=$(bms deps -w 'osp::ProtoBuf' | grep -A1 'is at least partially cached in replication_dir at:' | sed -n 2p)/include

Protobuf status issue
google::protobuf::util::Status is now absl::Status

________________________________________

OTF 23 Migration guide
From the client point of view, OTF 23 will be pretty similar to branch 21.
C++20 toolchain v23
OTF 23 supports only toolchain v23 with -std=gnu++23. There is a separate migration guide for toolchain v23, see From toolchain v21 (GCC 11.x/-std=gnu++20) to toolchain v23 (GCC 13.x/-std=gnu++23)
DU compatibility
Frontend / Backend
The OTF frontend 23 will only work correctly with the followings OTF backend versions:
•	It is NOT possible to use any backend 14.
•	OTF backend >= 15-0-0-155 (MWPack 15 was deprecated in 2020)
•	OTF backend >= 16-0-0-168 (MWPack 16 was deprecated in 2021)
•	OTF backend >= 18-0-0-117 (MWPack 18 was deprecated in 2023)
•	OTF backend >= 19-0-0-78
•	Any OTF backend >= 21
•	Any OTF backend >= 23
HACS / Context server
The HACS 23 will only work correctly with the following context servers:
•	Any context server >= 21
•	Any context server >= 23
Reminder: the CS/HACS version is determined by the OTF ULAM component (same as frontend version).
OTF variable changes
The default value of the following OTF variables have changed. In most cases, you can already test that this will not affect you without migrating to this pack by overriding the default value in older packs.
•	TODO: add the variables changes if there was some.
The following OTF variables have been removed, so please stop setting them (reviewing all your OTF variables during a major MWPack migration is always a good idea):
•	TODO: add the variables changes if there was some.

API changes
•	The deprecated default constructor of class otf::CoordinatedReply has been removed. It's unlikely you actually used it in the past.
•	The deprecated method otf::CoordinatedReply::getMessage has been removed. As advised in the deprecation message, it's being replaced by the method "getInboundMessage", which returns a std::shared_ptr<otf::InboundMessage> (while the removed methods returns a raw pointer to otf::InboundMessage).
•	The class otf::CoordinatedReply is no longer copy/move constructible/assignable. These where normally already deprecated since pack 15. It's unliked you actually used that in the past.
•	The deprecated classes otf::resources::CoordinatedQueryData and otf::resources::CoordinatedReplyData were removed. As advised in the deprecation message, the getters you will find in these class are directly available in the CoordinatedQuery/CoordinatedReply classes, so you can save yourself the one indirection (ie calling getReply()/getQuery() is no longer needed).
•	New style services (using otf::resources::Client, for REST services, or new-style edifact services) can no longer do transaction coordinator calls with shared_ptr of otf::Payload or otf::RESTOutboundRequest. Instead, you shall pass directly a reference to these objects, not a shared_ptr anymore. It is perfectly fine to totally remove the shared_ptr semantics, EVEN  if the lifetime your otf::Payload/otf::RESTOutboundRequest is smaller than the object of the lifetime of the CoordinatedQuery object. OTF will store an internal copy of these payloads internally. These constructors are already deprecated in old packs.
•	The deprecated enum otf::resources::CoordinatedQueryDataType_t and otf::resources::CoordinatedReplyDataType_t were now moved in the otf:: namespace. You can safely implement this change in older packs too.
•	Following it's usage deprecation, the class otf::resources::CoordinatedQuery has been removed. You should use otf::CoordinatedQuery instead, which has almost the same API, without the std::shared_ptr semantic. You shall replace usages of otf::resources::ListCoordinatedQueryPtr by std::list<otf::CoordinatedQuery>. You can implement this change starting from pack 15 if you don't need to keep binary compatibility of your public API.
•	Similarly, the class otf::resources::CoordinatedReply has been removed. You should use otf::CoordinatedReply instead. Also we have aligned constness in the list type representing all the replies of a transaction coordinator, now the constness is the same both in rest and non rest service types. You should replace both usages of otf::resources::ListCoordinatedReplyPtr and otf::resources::ListCoordinatedReplyConstPtr to the type alias otf::ListCoordinatedReplyConstPtr. Note that unlike most of the changes listed here, you cannot implement these changes in previous major packs, as these types are actually defined in reply callbacks, which we can't change or support in two versions without too many bloated code in previous packs.
•	The enum value otf::Encoding::kAscci7 has been renamed otf::Encoding::kAscii7 as it contained a typo. This is announced since OTF 15 (the old value is explicitly deprecated).
•	The historical API for Protobuf payload management has been moved into the mdw::OTF BMS library and the otf:: namespace. Normally in packs <= 21 the compiler should tell you when you use a deprecated name (if you don't disable them explicitly), so please read and fix all warnings before upgrading to a bigger major pack. As a consequence you should:
o	Remove any BMS dependency to mdw::OTF::ProtobufFramework::Protobuf in favor of mdw::OTF which normally you already depend on.
o	Replace all C++ #include statement from "otf/protobuf/*.h" to "otf/*.h" (which can easily be modified via a sed replacement).
o	Replace all C++ namespace otf::protobuf:: usage by otf:: (which can easily be modified via a sed replacement).
•	The historical API of otf::HTTPHeaderValue has been modified (ie deprecated) in 2024. Historically this class used to provide two sets of getters and setters for "value" and "options". What was an "options" of a header ? Well we considered that all the headers used to follow the "Content-Type" header syntax, where anything that follows the semi-colon is a map of options. Our assumption was wrong, except "Content-Type", pretty much no HTTP header does use this syntax, and people who used "getValue" got only the truncated "main value" of the headers (ie everything before the semicolon). So, these accessors were deprecated, and instead we have introduced a set of "raw value" accessors (ie getRawValue/setRawValue), and two APIs allowing to parse/encode the specific "Content-Type" header: parseMainValueAndOptions & setMainValueAndOptions. Follow the detailed deprecation warning you get since pack 15 starting from september 2024 to correctly migrate these. The deprecated APIs will be removed in OTF 25.
Enter / exit panel mode is now handled on OTF side
You are concerned if you use otf::PanelManager::enterPanelMode() or otf::PanelManager::leavePanelMode().
When either of these methods was called, OTF was sending an SIADMQ IPANE/OPANE to the SI (asynchronous call). The flow was done this way because some data synchronization to TPF was needed.
The applicative flow is entered back on callbacks otf::CrypticServiceObject::handlePanelModeEntrance, otf::CrypticServiceObject::handlePanelModeEntranceDenied, otf::CrypticServiceObject::handlePanelModeExit or otf::CrypticServiceObject::handlePanelModeExitDenied
OTF is now handling enter/exit panel mode itself directly.
The following methods have been removed:
•	otf::PanelManager::enterPanelMode
•	otf::PanelManager::leavePanelMode
•	otf::CrypticServiceObject::handlePanelModeEntrance
•	otf::CrypticServiceObject::handlePanelModeEntranceDenied
•	otf::CrypticServiceObject::handlePanelModeExit
•	otf::CrypticServiceObject::handlePanelModeExitDenied
•	macro OTF_REGISTER_PANEL_MODE (PANEL_MODE_HANDLER on OHF side)
Other clean-up to do:
•	remove any client profile with key PANEL_MANAGEMENT that you might have in your cfg
•	in your library.xml, remove any tag "panelModeService"
Here is the api to use instead:
•	otf::PanelManager::enterPanelModeImmediate. It returns a boolean which indicates if enter panel mode is allowed, and throws an exception when inbound message does not have any DCX
•	otf::PanelManager::enterPanelModeImmediate. It returns a boolean which indicates success or failure.
The flow continue after these methods are call, you want to move what you have in handlePanelModeEntrance / handlePanelModeEntranceDenied and handlePanelModeExit / handlePanelModeExitDenied after in your code.
Since no call is made, passivate / activate is not called any longer to save contexts for the asynchronous call.
This api is available since mdw 15. We encourage you to migrate on your current mdw pack and not at the same time as the actual migration of your code to mdw 23+
Impact on your non-regression tests:
The decision to allow panel mode to be entered is based on the terminal type in the DCX: <TPF ATID="09B55777" TYP="2" MODE="F"/>
You tests on panel mode need
•	a DCX on all messages
•	a terminal type, see SI documentation on types which allow or deny panel mode enter: Panels handling architecture
Cryptic options moved from otf:: Payload constructors to otf::CrypticPayloadOptions
The following optional data could be input to otf:: Payload constructors for cryptic messages, they should now be set on otf::CrypticPayloadOptions.
Don't set the data if you didn't before, some of them have default values.
otf: Payload	otf::CrypticPayloadOptions
iHeader	setHeader
iFooter	setFooter
iMore	setMore
iLanguage	setLanguage
iStartLine	setStartLine
iDontFillDisplay	setDontFillDisplay
iRealNL	setRealNewLine
iRealNC	setRealNewColumn
For instance,
otf:: Payload aPayload(aReply, aOptions, aHeader, aFooter);
becomes
aOptions.setHeader(aHeader);
aOptions.setFooter(aFooter);
otf:: Payload aPayload(aReply, aOptions);

________________________________________

kitPack migration: from 21 to 23
This page gives details on the changes required to go from latest kitPack 21-x-x-x to the latest kitPack 23-x-x-x.

•	Description
•	Official MWPack/OSPack/OTF migration notes from 21 to 23
•	C++ modernization
•	BMS & CMK & kitPack 23
•	Gotchas (issues faced during early ports)
•	API Changes in kitPack
o	kitCommon: deprecated API's have been removed
o	kitField: no API change
o	kitHac: no API change
o	kitSimpleType: no API change
o	kitCodeset: no API change
o	kitCodegen: no API change
o	kitPersistence: no API change
o	kitMultiling: no API change
o	kitBcf: no API change
o	kitTimestat: no API change
o	kitParallel: no API change
o	kitNoSQLClient: no API change (only for HTLIT - HTLDIS, use kvclient directly)
o	kitBlob (and pyKitBlob, incidentally): no API change
o	kitXdsc: no API change
o	kitOaf (not versioned anymore by ahpmw::kitPack): API changes needed due to OTF API change
o	kitUtils (not versioned anymore by ahpmw::kitPack): API changes needed due to OAF API changes
•	Migration tips & tricks
Migration guide mwpack/ospack 21 to 23:  Migration Guide (MWPack 23)
Description
The migration from kitPack 21 to 23 is, as the major version indicates it, not binary compatible.
It means some change to source code will be required since several API's and/or includes may have been altered.
If you face issues not listed on this page: LEAVE A COMMENT!
That will avoid multiple people from solving the SAME problem again and again.
If you face a problem not listed there, make sure you upgrade to the latest version before asking for support.
Official MWPack/OSPack/OTF migration notes from 21 to 23
For general migration instructions to MWPack 23, check  Migration Guide (MWPack 23) (this assumes the the Confluence Cloud migration doesn't mess links up, obviously)
GOTCHA: If you come from 18, you must read earlier guides 18>19 AND 19>21 - links provided in kitPack migration: from 18 to 21 and then, this page (for 21 to 23).
C++ modernization
If you haven't done them already, we strongly recommend you checked the guidelines there: C++ modernization for mwpack 18 (C++17) and beyond
The general idea is: if you can, use std, and if not, then boost, and if not, ospack, and if not, recode / find some alternative but, feel free to pick our brains to avoid possibly useless work.
Note that with the newer C++ compiler, assignment-copy operators ala "T& operator=(const T&)" are no longer explicitly generated
→ this can trigger issues for some field (noticed while porting kitSimpleType)
→ some fixes/adjustment to add the missing operators may be required in kitCodegen and/or kitField ==> let us know
BMS & CMK & kitPack 23
•	Nothing really specific to pack 23.
Here is a sample minimal .bms/bmsrc :
bmsrc
[bms]
include_conf = /projects/comdelde/configuration/23.0.0/bms/config/bmsrc/bmsrc.global
repositories += ar://ahp-bms

[clean]
# Comment if you don't want to clean generated code. It's recommended to keep as it can help solve odd compilation issues.
interactive_clean_generated_code = 0

[deliver]
# For middleware for instance
repository = ar://ahp-bms
# Often required due to (too) frequent Chorus path changes breaking everything in R&D
skip_poc_validation = 1

[build]
# FIXME: if you're a middleware maintainer, you should explicitly export the public symbols rather than making all of them public.
# If you don't care, uncomment the line below.
# If you want to do it correctly, check for instance https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHPF/repos/obe-mdw-kit-blob/browse/include/kit/Blob.hpp?at=refs%2Fheads%2Frelease%2F18-0-1#76
#hide_symbols = 0
To sum up:
•	Update your main .bms/bmsrc  to include:
include_conf = /projects/comdelde/configuration/23.0.0/bms/config/bmsrc/bmsrc.global
•	Update your Description.xml and Forest.xml to mwpack 23 versions
•	Try to remove some dependencies as some may no longer be needed
•	Commit, then run a bms deps -kb --repair  after (commit before: as bms deps -kb --repair sometimes messes up your files)
•	Fix the compilation warnings
Gotchas (issues faced during early ports)
•	mdw::CppUnit becomes osp::CppUnit in pack 23 - you just need to update your BMS description.xml's
•	osp::Rapidjson: if you need to override macro RAPIDJSON_ASSERT, you may have to add a #define RAPIDJSON_ASSERT_THROWS 1 if your assert macro throws (most in hotel seem to throw) or you may face compilation issues.
Example: https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHFR/repos/obe-mdw-kit-hsp/pull-requests/293/diff#src/internal/rapidjson_safeinclude.hpp
•	osp::Protobobuf and protoc - in your Description.xml, change from:
<generator name="osp::ProtoBuf" configfile="src/proto.cfg" depends="" options=" --proto_path=src/codegenconf/protobuf --cpp_out=src/genprotobuf -I src/genprotobuf src/codegenconf/protobuf/*.proto"/>
to
<generator name="osp::ProtoBuf::protoc" configfile="src/proto.cfg" depends="" options=" --proto_path=src/codegenconf/protobuf --cpp_out=dllexport_decl='__attribute__((visibility(&quot;default&quot;)))':src/genprotobuf -I src/genprotobuf src/codegenconf/protobuf/*.proto"/>
Note: the dllexport part is optional but helps you have cleaner exports if you try to reduce exported symbols - mostly matters for middleware provider => it may save you some time later and it doesn't hurt so just use it
•	otf::cryptic payloads: some changes in OTF API's (constructors) so expect some code changes to be able to compile again (check the OTF migration guide for guidance).
API Changes in kitPack
For most (if not all) kit the README.md  file should contain a detailed list of the changes.
kitCommon: deprecated API's have been removed
A couple things that used to generate deprecation build warnings have been removed.
You had been warned so please fix your code and as usual, never ignore build and compilation warnings !
Recommendation for new projects: OK to use.
Rationale: actively maintained.
kitField: no API change
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID.
Rationale: no significant known problem but serious design flaws that can't really be fixed now that it's been used a lot for years - same issues as for kitField.
kitHac: no API change
Recommendation for new projects: use if in HTLIT or in HTLDIS/LinkHotel
Rationale: implements the Hotel IT / LinkHotel Security model (with management of chain/brand/property level) but is not suitable for general distribution (which has a model closer to the original LSS one).
kitSimpleType: no API change
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID.
Rationale: no significant known problem but serious design flaws that can't really be fixed now that it's been used a lot for years - same issues as for kitField.
kitCodeset: no API change
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID. Not supported for Hotel IT. Only makes sense for Hotel Distribution.
Rationale: we (PMT) only package and fix warnings and have zero knowledge on what it should be doing (= "the code is the specification").
IMPORTANT: if you do use the component, be aware there is ZERO testing.
kitCodegen: no API change
The code generated may be slightly different as it had to be adjusted for proper compilation.
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID.
Rationale: it only makes sense when used with kitPersistence, and that one should be avoided too (overengineered and subtle errorprone cases).
kitPersistence: no API change
kitPersistence relies on the availabilty of a default connection. It's not the preferred mode for UPSQL now but it cannot support multiple connections cleanly without a major redesign.
This is the case for OHF, for instance but it is not the case in unit tests.
So you will have to set it up yourself:
•
o	Check there: https://amadeus.atlassian.net/wiki/display/UPSQL/15.+Connection+oriented+APIs
o	unittest's main.cpp: https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHPF/repos/obe-mdw-kit-persistence/browse/test/main.cpp?at=refs%2Fheads%2Frelease%2F19.0.1#49-50
o	and https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHPF/repos/obe-mdw-kit-persistence/browse/test/ConnectionPoolRaiiHelper.hpp?at=release/19.0.1 (that you should be able to steal as is  )
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID - prefer direct UP_SQL.
Rationale: due to complicated designed and maintenance concerns, knowledge and expertise available are limited so you will most likely be on your own to investigate issues.
kitMultiling: no API change
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID.
Rationale: old and complicated designed - knowledge and expertise available are limited so you will most likely be on your own to investigate issues.
kitBcf: no API change
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID.
Rationale: limited knowledge and expertise - the code is the reference - you will be on your own.
kitTimestat: no API change
Recommendation for new projects: OK to use.
Rationale: actively maintained.
kitParallel: no API change
Recommendation for new projects: OK to use.
Rationale: actively maintained.
kitNoSQLClient: no API change (only for HTLIT - HTLDIS, use kvclient directly)
Recommendation for new projects: OK to use (but mostly for IT and for NoSQL queries) - for hotel distribution you should use mdw::KVclient directly or if you need to run N1QL queries.
Rationale: actively maintained (but mostly for Hotel IT shopping 's nosql) and there is no plan to support N1QL queries.
kitBlob (and pyKitBlob, incidentally): no API change
Recommendation for new projects: OK to use.
Rationale: actively maintained.
kitXdsc: no API change
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID and try to use mdw::XDSC directly instead to generate your grammars.
Rationale: kitXdsc is sort of a hack over mdw::XDSC.
kitOaf (not versioned anymore by ahpmw::kitPack): API changes needed due to OTF API change
Check https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHPF/repos/obe-mdw-kit-oaf/browse/README.md.
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID.
Rationale: not supported for Hotel IT - no testing in OAF itself. Limited clarity on what is expected (same issue as for PST and BCF but worse),
Note: it always lags behind OTF & has limited support for REST calls.
kitUtils (not versioned anymore by ahpmw::kitPack): API changes needed due to OAF API changes
Check https://rndwww.nce.amadeus.net/git/projects/AHPF/repos/obe-mdw-kit-utils/browse/README.md for further details, pending more update here.
Recommendation for new projects: AVOID.

Migration tips & tricks
The tips below may be useful and come from our experience creating kitpack23 itself or integrating it in early candidates (other applicative middleware or applications).
•	No tips so far

________________________________________

<UP_SQLDBConnectionPool.cpp#156 TID#86399488> Pool is not initialized in UT stdout
upsql::sqlite::UP_SQLDBConnectionPool::Init();
status = RUN_ALL_TESTS();
upsql::sqlite::UP_SQLDBConnectionPool::Close();

float comparison warning as error
use disable pragmas in the minimal possible scope

________________________________________

•	KvClient mdw changes :
Another change was related to the KvClient middleware which handles Couchbase operations, there were headers renamed and classes that were previously defined and bundled together were separated to different hpp/cpp files, some methods were also removed (such as ::query() under N1QLClient). These changes however were introduced in KVClient Pack 19, given that we are skipping versions to the MDW version 23, more changes should be expected. Here are the changes related to KvClient : Migration to KvClient Pack 19
•	according this migration guide :
OTF 19 Migration guide
#include <otf/RESTServiceObject.h> changed to #include <otf/Service.h>
and otf::StandardRESTServiceObjectAllocator to be changed to otf::StandardServiceAllocator
General
•	From toolchain v18 (gnu++17) to toolchain v23 (gnu++23)
•	Iterator Inheritance Removal Issue:
The previous implementation of GenericMemberIterator inherited from std::iterator has been deprecated since C++17 and removed in C++20.
-> Removing the inheritance and doing an explicit implementation of iterator traits manually to ensure compatibility with C++23. (Reference)
•	Const-Correctness in Version Comparison Operators:
In C++17, the comparison operators (operator< and operator==) were not const-qualified, potentially modifying the Version object. In C++23, this breaks const-correctness when used with constant objects.
-> Add the const qualifier to the member function declarations for the comparison operators. This explicitly indicates that the operators will not modify the object. (Reference)
•	Header Inclusion <cstdint> in C++23:
The compiler throws a build error if <cstdint> is not explicitly included, as it defines fixed-width integer types like uint64_t.
-> Explicitly include the <cstdint> header to ensure proper definition of fixed-width integer types..
•	https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/copy_elision
std::move is removed to allow copy elision. Using std::move on a temporary prevents the compiler from applying copy elision